Anti-Bribery Law 
 
Royal Decree No. M/36 
June 30, 1992 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Translation of Saudi Laws 

NEW PAGE

Anti-Bribery Law 
 
 
 
NOTE: 
The translation of Saudi laws takes the following into consideration: 
•  Words used in the singular form include the plural and vice versa.  
•  Words used in the masculine form include the feminine.  
•  Words used in the present tense include the present as well as the future.  
•  The word “person” or “persons” and their related pronouns (he, his, him, they, 
their, them) refer to a natural and legal person.  
 
   
  2 

NEW PAGE

Anti-Bribery Law 
 
 
 
Anti-Bribery Law 
Article 1 
Any public servant who solicits, accepts, or receives for himself or for others a 
gift  or  payment  of  any  sort,  or  a  promise  thereof,  as  a  consideration  for 
performing any of his office duties or an alleged office duty, even if the action 
taken is legitimate, shall be considered a bribee and shall be punished by 
imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years and a fine not exceeding 
1,000,000 riyals, or by either penalty. The public servant shall be incriminated 
regardless of his intent not to perform the promised act. 
Article 2 
Any public servant who solicits, accepts, or receives for himself or for others a 
gift or payment of any sort, or a promise thereof, as a consideration for not 
performing an office duty or an alleged office duty, even if such inaction is 
legitimate, shall be considered a bribee and shall be punished by the same 
penalty set forth in Article 1 of this Law. The public servant shall be incriminated 
regardless of his intent not to perform the promised act. 
Article 3 
Any public servant who solicits, accepts, or receives for himself or for others a 
gift  or  payment  of  any  sort,  or  a  promise  thereof,  as  a  consideration  for 
breaching his office duties or as a reward for the same, even in the absence of 
a prior agreement, shall be considered a bribee and shall be punished by the 
same penalty set forth in Article 1 of this Law. 
Article 4 
Any public servant who breaches his office duties by performing or refraining 
from performing any of such duties as a result of a plea, recommendation, or 
intercession,  shall  be  considered  a  bribee  and  shall  be  punished  by 
imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years and a fine not exceeding 
100,000 riyals, or by either penalty. 
Article 5 
Any public servant who solicits, accepts, or receives for himself or for others a 
gift or payment of any sort, or a promise thereof, as a consideration for using a 
real or alleged influence to obtain or attempt to obtain, from any public authority, 
a  contract,  order,  decision,  commitment,  license,  supply  agreement,  job, 
service, or privilege of any type, shall be considered a bribee and shall be 
punished by the same penalty set forth in Article 1 of this Law. 
  3 

NEW PAGE

Anti-Bribery Law 
 
 
 
Article 6 
Any public servant not covered by the other provisions of this Law, who solicits, 
accepts, or receives for himself or for others a gift or a payment of any sort, or 
a promise thereof, by virtue of his position to follow up a case-file at any 
government  agency,  shall  be  punished  by  imprisonment  for  a  term  not 
exceeding two years and a fine not exceeding 50,000 riyals, or by either 
penalty. The same penalty shall apply to any person who gives, offers, or 
promises to give a gift for the aforementioned purpose as well as to the mediator 
in any of these cases. 
Article 7 
Any person who uses force, violence, or threat against any public servant to 
perform an illegal action or to prevent such servant from performing any of his 
office duties, shall be punished by the same penalty set forth in Article 1 of this 
Law. 
Article 8  
In the application of the provisions of this Law, the following persons shall be 
considered public servants: 
1. Any person who works for the government or any public corporate entity, 
whether permanently or temporarily. 
2. An arbitrator or expert assigned by the government or any authority with 
judicial jurisdiction. 
3. Any person assigned by a government agency or any other administrative 
authority to perform a specific task. 
4. Any person who works for companies or sole proprietorships that manage, 
operate, or maintain public facilities or provide public services, as well as any 
person who works for joint stock companies, companies partially owned by 
the  government,  and  companies  and  sole  proprietorships  engaged  in 
banking services. 
5. Chairmen and members of the boards of directors of the companies set forth 
in paragraph (4) of this Article. 
6. Employees and members of non-government public-benefit societies, as 
well as chairmen and members of their boards of directors. 
7. Employees of international organizations and bodies with respect to the 
conduct of international commercial activities.  
Article 9  
Any person who offers or promises a bribe and such offer or promise is rejected 
shall be punished by imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years and a 
fine not exceeding 1,000,000 riyals, or by either penalty. 
Article 9 (Repeated 1)  
Any person who promises, offers, or grants a gift to any person working for 
private  or  cooperative  societies,  private  organizations,  companies,  sole 
  4 

NEW PAGE

Anti-Bribery Law 
 
 
 
proprietorships, or professional bodies, in any capacity, whether for his own 
benefit  or  the  benefit  of  others,  for  the  unlawful  performance  or  non-
performance of his duties, shall be deemed to have committed bribery and shall 
be subject to imprisonment for a period not exceeding five years or a fine not 
exceeding 500,000 riyals, or both.   
Article 9 (Repeated 2)  
Any person working for private or cooperative societies, private organizations, 
companies, sole proprietorships, or professional bodies, in any capacity, who 
requests for himself or others, or accepts or receives a promise or gift for the 
unlawful performance or non-performance of his duties, shall be deemed to 
have committed bribery and shall be subject to imprisonment for a period not 
exceeding five years or a fine not exceeding 500,000 riyals, or both.   
Article 10 
The briber, the mediator, and any accomplice in any of the offences set forth in 
this Law shall be punished as provided for in the relevant Article. Any person 
who knowingly agrees, incites, or assists in committing such offences shall be 
considered an accomplice if the offence is perpetrated as a result of said 
agreement, incitement, or assistance. 
Article 11 
Any person who is assigned by the bribee or the briber to take a bribe and 
knowingly accepts the same shall be punished by imprisonment for a term not 
exceeding two years and a fine not exceeding 50,000 riyals, or by either 
penalty. 
Article 12 
In the application of this Law, any benefit or privilege obtained by the bribee, 
regardless of its type or designation, whether material or otherwise, shall be 
considered a gift or promise of payment of any sort. 
Article 13 
A public servant or a person of a similar capacity convicted of any offence set 
forth in this Law shall be dismissed and prevented from assuming any public 
position or performing any acts that are the responsibility of public servants in 
accordance with Article 8 of this Law. 
Article 14 
The Council of Ministers shall reconsider the consequential punishment after 
the lapse of five years from the date of completion of the enforcement of the 
original punishment. 
  5 

NEW PAGE

Anti-Bribery Law 
 
 
 
Article 15 
In all cases, any money, benefit, or privilege – subject of the offence – shall be 
confiscated, whenever possible. 
Article 16 
The briber or mediator shall be exempted from original and consequential 
punishments if he informs the authorities prior to the discovery of the offence. 
Article 17 
Any person who provides incriminating information on any of the offences set 
forth  in  this  Law  that  substantiates  the  offence  and  he  is  not  a  briber, 
accomplice, or mediator shall receive a reward not less than 5,000 riyals and 
not more than half of the money confiscated. Such reward shall be determined 
by the authority deciding upon the offence. The Ministry of Interior may, upon 
the approval of the President of the Council of Ministers, pay a higher reward 
than the amount prescribed under this Article. 
Article 18 
Any person who is convicted of an offence set forth in this Law shall be 
considered a recidivist if proven to have committed another offence under this 
Law  prior  to  the  lapse  of  five  years  from  the  date  of  completion  of  the 
punishment. In this case, such person may be punished by a penalty higher 
than the maximum limit of the prescribed punishment for the offence, provided 
that double the maximum limit is not exceeded. 
Article 19 
The  competent  authority  responsible  for  adjudging  bribery  offences  shall 
impose a fine not exceeding ten times the value of the bribe or enforce a ban 
on entering into procurement or project execution contracts with ministries, 
public corporate entities, or either penalty against any national or foreign private 
company or establishment where the manager or any of the employees thereof 
is convicted of any of the offences provided for in this Law if proven that the 
offence is committed in its favor. The Council of Ministers may reconsider the 
abovementioned ban upon the lapse of at least five years from the date of 
issuance of the judgment. 
Article 20 
If any national or foreign private company or establishment is banned from 
entering into any contracts in accordance with Article 19 of this Law, the 
government  agency  contracting  therewith  shall  submit  to  the  Council  of 
Ministers its opinion on ongoing contracts with such company or establishment, 
even if the government agency is not connected to the offence subject of the 
judgment. 
  6 

NEW PAGE

Anti-Bribery Law 
 
 
 
Article 21 
The Ministry of Interior shall publish and announce judgments issued on bribery 
offences. 
Article 22 
This Law shall supersede the Anti-Bribery Law promulgated by Royal Decree 
No. 15 dated 7/3/1382H and its amendments, and shall repeal any conflicting 
provisions. 
Article 23 
This Law shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall enter into force 30 
days after its publication date. 
  7 

NEW PAGE
Anti-Harassment Law
1439 H
In the name of Allah the Merciful

Royal Decree
Royal Decree

In the name of Allah the Merciful

Council of Ministers Resolution
Council of Ministers Resolution

Anti-Harassment Law
Article 1
For the application of this Law, the crime of harassment shall mean any utterance, act or gesture of a sexual nature made by a person that impinges on another person’s body, honor or modesty by any means, including modern technologies.

Article 2
This Law aims to combat the crime of harassment, prevent its occurrence, punish perpetrators and protect victims, in order to preserve the privacy, dignity and personal freedom of individuals guaranteed by Sharia and law.

Article 3
1.    A victim’s non-filing or withdrawal of a complaint shall not preclude the competent authorities from taking any action they deem to serve public interest, in accordance with the provisions of the Law of Criminal Procedures and other relevant laws. 2.    A person who witnesses a case of harassment may report the incident to the competent authorities to take action in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article.

Article 4
1.    Any person who, by virtue of his work, becomes privy to any case of harassment shall maintain the confidentiality thereof. 2.    The identity of the victim shall not be disclosed, except in the course of evidence collection, investigation or trial.

Article 5
1.    The relevant departments within government and private entities shall set measures necessary to prevent and combat harassment in the work environment, including: a)    a mechanism for receiving complaints within the entity; b)    procedures necessary for verifying the complaints and maintaining confidentiality thereof; and c)    Publication of such measures and informing staff thereof. 2.    The relevant departments within government and private entities shall take disciplinary measures against any of their personnel in case of any violation of the provisions of this Law, in accordance with their applicable procedures. 3.    Disciplinary measures according to this Article shall not prejudice the victim’s right to file a complaint with the competent authorities.

Article 6
1.    Subject to paragraph 2 of this Article, and without prejudice to any penalty prescribed by Sharia or any harsher penalty provided for by any other law, any person who commits a crime of harassment shall be subject to imprisonment for a period not exceeding two years and a fine not exceeding 100,000 riyals, or to either penalty; 2.    The crime of harassment shall be punishable by imprisonment for a period not exceeding five years and a fine not exceeding 300,000 riyals, or by either penalty, in case the offense is repeated or coupled with any of the following: a)    if the victim is a child; b)    if the victim is a person with special needs; c)    if the perpetrator has direct or indirect authority over the victim; d)    if the offence occurs in a workplace, place of study, shelter or care center; e)    if the perpetrator and the victim are of the same sex; f)    if the victim is asleep, unconscious or in any similar state at the time of the crime; or g)    if the crime occurs in times of crisis, disaster or accidents.  

Article Changes
Article 7
1.    Any person who incites, conspires with or assists others in any manner to commit a crime of harassment shall be subject to the penalty prescribed for the crime. 2.    Any person who attempts to commit a crime of harassment shall be subject to a punishment not exceeding half the maximum prescribed penalty; 3.    Any person who submits a malicious report of a crime of harassment or maliciously claims to be a victim thereof shall be subject to the penalty prescribed for the crime of harassment.  

Article 8
This Law shall enter into force from the date of its publication in the Official Gazette.


Anti-Forgery Law
1435 H
Anti-Forgery Law
Chapter One: Definitions and Types of Forgery
Article 1
 

In this Code, the following terms shall have the meanings assigned thereto, unless the context requires otherwise:
1.Forgery: Any change made deliberately and in bad faith using one of the methods stipulated in this Code to an instrument, seal, mark, or stamp protected by the law, if such change results in physical, moral, or social damage to any natural or corporate person.
2.Seal:  A tool used to stamp documents for authentication or the imprint made thereby.
3.Stamp: An adhesive label, or a similar label produced electronically or printed, that is affixed to an object and is used for purposes of postage or revenue collection. 
4.Mark: A sign or symbol used by a public entity to convey a certain meaning specifically associated thereto that entails a legal effect, regardless of the type or shape thereof.
5.Document: Any document that includes letters or marks conveying a specific meaning, regardless of the form in which it is written or kept, including information technologies.
6.Bank Papers: Documents used by banks for deposit, withdrawal, or transfer from their treasuries or accounts, or from a customer’s account, including letters of credit, letters of guarantee, credit cards,  and debit cards.
7.Historical Document: An old and rare document that includes facts and information about the Kingdom’s history, and has a historical value but no legal authority.

Electronic Transactions Law 
 
Royal Decree No. M/18 
March 27, 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Translation of Saudi Laws 

NEW PAGE

Electronic Transactions Law 
 
 
 
NOTE: 
The translation of Saudi laws takes the following into consideration: 
•  Words used in the singular form include the plural and vice versa.  
•  Words used in the masculine form include the feminine.  
•  Words used in the present tense include the present as well as the future.  
•  The word “person” or “persons” and their related pronouns (he, his, him, they, 
their, them) refer to a natural and legal person.  
 
   
  2 

NEW PAGE

Electronic Transactions Law 
 
 
 
Electronic Transactions Law 
Chapter 1: General Provisions 
Definitions 
Article 1 
In this Law, the following terms shall have the meanings assigned thereto, 
unless the context requires otherwise: 
1. Ministry: Ministry of Communications and Information Technology. 
2. Minister: Minister of Communications and Information Technology. 
3. Commission: Communications and Information Technology Commission. 
4. Governor: Governor of the Communications and Information Technology 
Commission. 
5. Regulations: Implementing Regulations of this Law. 
6. Center: National Center for Digital Certification. 
7. Computer: Any stationary or portable, wired or wireless, electronic device 
with a system for processing, storing, sending, receiving, or browsing data, 
which  performs  specific  functions  according  to  programs  and  given 
commands. 
8. Person: Any natural or corporate person, whether public or private. 
9. Electronic: Technology based on using electrical, electromagnetic, optical, 
or similar capabilities. 
10. Electronic Transactions: Any exchange, communication, contracting, or 
other procedure, performed or executed, wholly or partially, by electronic 
means. 
11. Electronic Data: Data with electronic features in the form of texts, codes, 
images, graphics, sounds, or any other electronic form, either collective or 
separate. 
12. Electronic Data System: One electronic device or program or more used 
to generate, retrieve, send, transmit, receive, store, display, or process 
electronic data. 
13. Electronic Record: Data which is electronically generated, sent, received, 
transmitted, or stored, and is retrievable in a perceivable form. 
14. Electronic Signature: Electronic data included in, attached to, or logically 
associated with an electronic transaction and used to verify the identity and 
approval  of  the  person  signing  it  and  to  detect  any  change  to  said 
transaction after signature. 
15. Electronic  Signature  System:  An  electronic  data  system  specially 
  3 

NEW PAGE

Electronic Transactions Law 
 
 
 
designed to work independently or with another electronic data system, to 
generate electronic signatures. 
16. Signatory:  A  person  making  an  electronic  signature  in  an  electronic 
transaction using an electronic signature system. 
17. Digital Certificate: An electronic document issued by a certification service 
provider to verify the identity of the person having an electronic signature 
system, including signature verification data. 
18. Intermediary: A person who receives an electronic transaction from an 
originator and delivers it to another person or performs other relevant 
services. 
19. Originator: A person, other than an intermediary, initiating an electronic 
transaction. 
20. Addressee: A person - other than an intermediary - to whom an electronic 
transaction is directed by an originator. 
21. Certification  Service  Provider:  A  person  licensed  to  issue  digital 
certificates or perform any other service or task related thereto and to 
electronic signatures in accordance with this Law. 
Objectives and Scope 
Article 2 
This Law aims at controlling, regulating, and providing a legal framework for 
electronic transactions and signatures so as to achieve the following: 
1. Setting  uniform  legal  standards  for  using  electronic  transactions  and 
signatures and facilitating the implementation thereof in both private and 
public sectors by means of reliable electronic records. 
2. Ensuring the credibility and integrity of electronic transactions, signatures, 
and records. 
3. Facilitating  electronic  transactions  and  signatures,  domestically  and 
internationally, in all sectors, including government procedures, commerce, 
medicine, education, and electronic payments. 
4. Removing obstacles facing the use of electronic transactions and signatures. 
5. Preventing misuse and fraud in electronic transactions and signatures. 
Article 3 
This Law shall apply to electronic transactions and signatures, excluding the 
following: 
1. Transactions pertaining to personal status. 
2. Issuance of deeds of legal actions pertaining to real property. 
Unless the authorities responsible for such transactions approve of performing 
them  electronically  according  to  conditions  set  by  said  authorities  in 
  4 

NEW PAGE

Electronic Transactions Law 
 
 
 
coordination with the Ministry. 
Article 4 
1. Nothing in this Law shall compel any person to use electronic transactions 
without his implicit or explicit consent. 
2. In exception to paragraph (1) of this Article, the consent of a government 
agency to electronic transactions shall be explicit, taking into consideration 
the conditions set by the government agency for electronic transactions. 
3. A person may set additional conditions for accepting electronic transactions 
and  signatures,  provided  that  such  conditions  do  not  conflict  with  the 
provisions of this Law. 
Chapter 2: Legal Effects of Electronic Transactions, Records, and 
Signatures 
Article 5 
1. Electronic transactions, records, and signatures shall have full effect and 
their validity and enforceability may not be contested, nor may the execution 
thereof be stayed on the ground that they were wholly or partially conducted 
by electronic means; provided that such electronic transactions, records, or 
signatures are carried out in compliance with the conditions provided for in 
this Law. 
2. Information resulting from electronic transactions shall remain in effect and 
enforceable as long as access to the details thereof is allowed within the 
electronic data system of the originator thereof and the manner of accessing 
them is indicated. 
Article 6 
1. Without prejudice to Article 3 of this Law, if any law in the Kingdom requires 
for certain documents or information to be stored for any reason, such 
requirement shall be deemed satisfied if said documents or information is 
stored or sent in the form of an electronic record, subject to the following: 
a) Storing  the  electronic  record  in  the  form  it  was  generated,  sent,  or 
received, or in such a form that the contents thereof may be verified as 
being identical to the contents in which it was generated, sent, or received. 
b) Storing the electronic record in a manner that allows for future use and 
reference.  
c) Storing  information,  together  with  electronic  records,  indicating  the 
originator and addressee as well as the date and time of sending and 
receiving. 
2. Any person may, at his own responsibility, assign another person to satisfy 
  5 

NEW PAGE

Electronic Transactions Law 
 
 
 
the requirements set forth in paragraph (1) of this Article. 
3. The Regulations shall set forth the procedures for storing electronic records 
and data, the conditions required to produce them in electronic format, and 
the conditions and restrictions for accessing them. 
Article 7 
Without prejudice to Article 3 of this Law, if any law in the Kingdom requires 
that documents, records, or information provided to others be written, said 
requirement shall be deemed satisfied, provided that they are provided in an 
electronic form in accordance with the provisions of Article 6(1). 
Article 8 
An electronic record shall be deemed an original in its own right when technical 
means and conditions are observed to ensure the integrity of information 
included therein from the time said record is created in its final form as an 
electronic  record,  and  allow  for  required  information  to  be  provided  upon 
request. The Regulations shall set forth such technical means and conditions. 
Article 9 
1. Electronic transactions or signatures shall be admissible as evidence if their 
electronic records satisfy the requirements set forth in Article 8 of this Law. 
2. Electronic transactions or signatures may be admissible as presumptive 
evidence even if their electronic records do not satisfy the requirements set 
forth in Article 8 of this Law. 
3. Electronic transactions, signatures, and records shall be deemed reliable 
evidence  in  transactions,  and  shall  be  deemed  intact  unless  proven 
otherwise. 
4. When assessing the reliability of an electronic transaction the following shall 
be considered: 
a) The method of creating, storing, or communicating an electronic record 
and the possibility of amending the same. 
b) The method of maintaining the integrity of information. 
c) The method of identifying the originator. 
Chapter 3: Concluding Electronic Transactions 
Article 10 
1. Offer and acceptance of contracts may be expressed by electronic means. 
Such  contracts  shall  be  deemed  valid  and  enforceable  if  concluded  in 
accordance with the provisions of this Law. 
  6 

NEW PAGE

Electronic Transactions Law 
 
 
 
2. The validity or enforceability of a contract shall not be denied if concluded 
through one or more electronic records. 
Article 11 
1. Contracts may be concluded through automated electronic data systems or 
directly between two or more electronic data systems previously designed 
and programmed to carry out such tasks on behalf of the two contracting 
parties.  Such  contracts  shall  be  deemed  valid  and  legally  effective, 
notwithstanding the absence of the direct intervention of any natural person 
in conclusion thereof. 
2. Contracts may be concluded between an automated electronic data system 
and a natural person, only if said person is aware, or presumed to be aware, 
that said contract is being concluded and executed by an automated system. 
Article 12 
An originator shall be deemed to have issued an electronic record if the record 
was sent by the originator personally, by another person acting on his behalf, 
or by an automated system programmed by him to do so on his behalf. 
Intermediaries shall not be deemed originators. The Regulations shall specify 
the procedures and provisions related thereto. 
Article 13 
1. An electronic record shall be deemed sent upon entry to a data system that 
is not controlled by the originator. The Regulations shall set the technical 
standards for data systems and the method of determining the time and 
place of sending or receiving a given electronic record. 
2. Acknowledgement of receipt shall take any form specified in the Regulations, 
unless the originator and the addressee agree on a specific form.  
Chapter 4: Electronic Signature 
Article 14 
1. If a hand-written signature is required for any document or contract or the 
like, such requirement shall be deemed satisfied by an electronic signature 
generated in accordance with this Law. The electronic signature shall be 
equal to a hand-written signature, and it shall have the same legal effects. 
2. Any person generating an electronic signature shall do so in accordance with 
the  provisions  of  this  Law  and  the  conditions,  requirements,  and 
specifications  set  by  the  Regulations,  and  shall  take  the  following  into 
consideration: 
a) Take necessary precautions to prevent the unlawful use of signature 
generating  data  or  the  personal  equipment  related  thereto.  The 
  7 

NEW PAGE

Electronic Transactions Law 
 
 
 
Regulations shall specify such precautions. 
b) Notify the certification service provider of any unauthorized use of his 
signature in accordance with the procedures specified in the Regulations. 
3. If an electronic signature is provided in any legal procedure, the following 
shall be deemed valid, unless proven otherwise or the concerned parties 
agree to the contrary: 
a) The electronic signature is the signature of the person identified in the 
relevant digital certificate. 
b) The electronic signature was provided by the person identified in the 
relevant digital certificate for the purpose specified therein. 
c) The  electronic  transaction  has  not  been  altered  since  the  electronic 
signature was affixed thereto. 
4. If an electronic signature does not satisfy the conditions and requirements 
set forth in this Law and the Regulations, the presumed validity established 
in paragraph (3) of this Article shall not apply to said signature nor to the 
electronic transaction associated therewith. 
5. Any  person  relying  on  an  electronic  signature  of  another  person  shall 
exercise due diligence in verifying the authenticity of the signature, using 
relevant  electronic  signature  verification  data  in  accordance  with  the 
procedures set forth by the Regulations. 
Chapter 5: Powers of the Ministry and the Commission 
Article 15 
Overseeing  the  implementation  of  the  provisions  of  this  Law  shall  be  in 
accordance with the following: 
1. The Ministry shall set general policies and draw development plans and 
programs for electronic transactions and signatures, submit draft laws and 
amendments thereto, coordinate with government agencies and others with 
regards to the implementation of this Law, and represent the Kingdom in 
local, regional, and international organizations with regards to electronic 
transactions and signatures. The Ministry may delegate the Commission or 
any other agency it deems fit to represent the Kingdom. 
2. The Commission shall be in charge of the implementation of this Law and 
shall, to this end, have the power to do the following: 
a) Issue,  renew,  suspend,  and  revoke  licenses  of  certification  service 
providers. The Regulations shall provide for the necessary requirements 
and  procedures  for  obtaining  a  license  and  its  validity,  renewal, 
suspension, revocation, and assignment, as well as the obligations of 
licensees, the conditions and procedures for suspending the activities 
thereof, and their legal effects. 
  8 

NEW PAGE

Electronic Transactions Law 
 
 
 
b) Ensure the compliance of certification service providers with the licenses 
issued to them, the provisions of this Law as well as the Regulations, and 
the decisions issued by the Commission. 
c) Take  necessary  measures–  in  accordance  with  the  Regulations–  to 
ensure the continuity of services to clients of the certification service 
provider upon suspension of the activities thereof or revocation or non-
renewal of the license granted thereto.  
d) Propose draft laws and regulations relating to electronic transactions and 
amendments  thereof,  and  submit  the  same  to  the  Ministry  to  take 
necessary procedures. 
e) Determine the fees for providing licensing certification services, subject to 
the Minister's approval. 
Chapter 6: National Center for Digital Certification 
Article 16 
1. A national center for digital certification shall be established in the Ministry in 
accordance with this Law to oversee and manage tasks relating to the 
issuance of digital certificates. 
2. The Regulations shall set forth the rules for determining the center's location, 
formation, powers, and tasks as well as the manner of carrying out its duties. 
The Minister may assign the Commission, or any other agency, the power to 
carry out some or all of the center's duties. 
Article 17 
The Center shall have the power to approve digital certificates issued by foreign 
parties outside the Kingdom. Said certificates shall be considered equal to 
those issued in the Kingdom, in accordance with the conditions and procedures 
specified in the Regulations. 
Chapter 7: Obligations and Responsibilities of Certification Service 
Providers 
Article 18 
A certification service provider shall observe the following: 
1. Obtain the necessary license from the Commission before commencing 
activities. 
2. Issue, deliver, and store digital certificates in accordance with the license 
issued therefor by the Commission and the procedures specified in the 
  9 

NEW PAGE

Electronic Transactions Law 
 
 
 
Regulations. 
3. Use  reliable  means  to  issue,  deliver,  and  store  certificates,  and  take 
necessary measures to protect said certificates from forgery, fraud, and 
damage, in accordance with the Regulations and the license issued thereto. 
4. Create a database for the certificates issued thereby and store said data and 
any modifications thereon, including suspended and revoked certificates, 
and grant continuous electronic access to such data. 
5. Maintain, along with its staff, the confidentiality of information obtained in the 
course of business, excluding information that certificate holders permit – in 
written or electronic form- to be published or disclosed, or as provided for by 
law. 
6. Obtain applicant's personal information, directly or indirectly, subject to the 
applicant's written consent. 
7. Issue certificates containing data specified in the Regulations in accordance 
with the requirements of the security and protection of systems, the rules and 
protection of systems, and the rules of digital certification set by the Center.  
8. Deliver, whenever his activities cease, all information and documentation in 
his possession to the Commission, to be disposed of in accordance with the 
provisions and standards provided for in the Regulations. 
Article 19 
A  certification  service  provider  may  not  cease  licensed  activities,  assign 
licenses issued to him, or merge with another entity without the prior written 
approval of the Commission, in accordance with the procedures specified in the 
Regulations. 
Article 20 
A  certification  service  provider  shall  warrant  the  accuracy  of  information 
provided in the certificate at the time of delivery, and the relevance of said 
electronic data to the certificate holder. A certification service provider shall also 
be liable for any damage incurred by any person relying, in good faith, on such 
information. 
Article 21 
A certification service provider shall, upon the request of a certificate holder or 
as specified in the Regulations, revoke or suspend such a certificate, and 
immediately notify the certificate holder of such revocation or suspension and 
the  reasons  therefore.  If  such  reasons  no  longer  stand,  he  shall  lift  said 
revocation or suspension. A certification service provider shall be liable for any 
damage incurred by any bona fide person due to failure to suspend or revoke 
the certificate.  
  10 

NEW PAGE

Electronic Transactions Law 
 
 
 
Chapter 8: Responsibilities of Certificate Holders 
Article 22 
1. A certificate holder shall be responsible for the integrity and confidentiality of 
his own electronic signature system, and any use of such system shall be 
deemed  originated  by  him.  A  certificate  holder  shall  comply  with  the 
conditions of using his certificate as well as the conditions for creating his 
electronic signature. 
2. A certificate holder shall provide accurate information to the certification 
service  provider  or  any  other  party  required  to  accept  his  electronic 
signature. 
3. A  certificate  holder  shall  notify  the  certification  service  provider  of  any 
modification or declassification of information provided in the certificate. 
4. The holder of a suspended or revoked certificate may not reuse elements of 
the electronic signature relating to said certificate with another certification 
service provider. The Regulations shall specify necessary procedures for 
preventing such incidents. 
Chapter 9: Offences and Penalties 
Article 23 
The following acts shall be deemed in violation of the provisions of this Law: 
1. Engaging in the activities of a certification service provider without a license 
from the Commission. 
2. A certification service provider’s use of information concerning the applicant, 
for  purposes  other  than  certification  without  the  applicant's  written  or 
electronic consent. 
3. A certification service provider’s disclosure of the information he became 
privy  to  by  virtue  of  his  work  without  the  certificate  holder's  written  or 
electronic consent, or as provided for by law. 
4. A certification service provider's provision of false or misleading information 
to the Commission, or the misuse of certification services. 
5. Creating, publishing, or using digital certificates or electronic signatures for 
fraudulent or any other unlawful purposes. 
6. Forging electronic records, electronic signatures, or digital certificates, or 
using them with knowledge of forgery. 
7. Knowingly providing false information to a certification service provider, or 
false electronic signature information to any party relying on such signature 
under this Law. 
  11 

NEW PAGE

Electronic Transactions Law 
 
 
 
8. Accessing, copying, restructuring, or taking over another person's electronic 
signature system without valid authorization. 
9. Stealing the identity of another person or falsely claiming to represent him in 
applying for, accepting, or requesting the suspension or revocation of a 
digital certificate. 
10. Publishing  a  forged,  false,  revoked,  or  suspended  digital  certificate  or 
knowingly  placing  such  certificate  at  the  disposal  of  another  person, 
excluding the right of a certification service provider as set forth in Article 
18(4). 
Article 24  
Without prejudice to any severer penalty provided for in any other law, anyone 
found guilty of any of the actions set forth in Article 23 of this Law shall be 
subject to a fine not exceeding 5,000,000 riyals, imprisonment for a period not 
exceeding five years or both penalties. Equipment, systems, and programs 
used in committing the violation may be confiscated pursuant to a judgment. 
The competent court may include in its sentence a provision for the publication 
of an abstract summary at the expense of the convicted person in a local 
newspaper issued in his place of residence or in the nearest area in the 
absence of such newspaper, or in the manner the court deems fit according to 
the  type,  gravity,  and  effect  of  the  crime  committed,  provided  that  such 
publication shall is executed after the judgment becomes final.     
Article 25 
The Commission, in cooperation and coordination with competent authorities, 
shall be in charge of recording and inspecting violations set forth in Article 23 
of this Law and making a record thereof. The Commission may seize the 
equipment, systems, and programs used in committing the violation until such 
violation is decided. The Governor shall issue a decision naming employees for 
the task and setting procedures for recording and inspection. 
Article 26 
The violation record as set forth in Article 25 of this Law shall, upon the 
Commission's completion of its task, be referred to the Bureau of Investigation 
and  Public  Prosecution  to  undertake,  in  accordance  with  its  law,  the 
investigation and prosecution thereof before the competent judicial authority. 
Article 27 
Any person incurring damage– due to violations set forth in this Law or failure 
to comply with any requirements or obligations provided for therein - shall 
reserve the right to claim damages before the competent judicial authority. 
  12 

NEW PAGE

Electronic Transactions Law 
 
 
 
Chapter 10: Concluding Provisions 
Article 28 
Application  of  this  Law  shall  not  prejudice  provisions  of  relevant  laws, 
particularly  those  related  to  intellectual  property  rights,  and  relevant 
international agreements to which the Kingdom is party. 
Article 29 
Staff of the Ministry, Commission, and Center shall maintain the confidentiality 
of information - relating to certification service providers or clients thereof - to 
which they became privy in the course of their work, and they may not disclose 
such information for any reason, except in cases provided for by law. 
Article 30 
The Minister shall issue the Regulations of this Law, upon a recommendation 
by the Commission, within 120 days from the issuance date of this Law. 
Article 31 
This Law shall enter into force 120 days from the date of its publication in the 
Official Gazette. 
  13 

NEW PAGE
Anti-Cyber Crime Law 
 
Royal Decree No. M/17 
March 27, 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Translation of Saudi Laws 

NEW PAGE

Anti-Cyber Crime Law 
 
 
 
NOTE: 
The translation of Saudi laws takes the following into consideration: 
•  Words used in the singular form include the plural and vice versa.  
•  Words used in the masculine form include the feminine.  
•  Words used in the present tense include the present as well as the future.  
•  The word “person” or “persons” and their related pronouns (he, his, him, they, 
their, them) refer to a natural and legal person.  
 
   
  2 

NEW PAGE

Anti-Cyber Crime Law 
 
 
 
Anti-Cyber Crime Law 
Article 1 
In this Law, the following terms shall have the meanings assigned thereto, 
unless the context requires otherwise: 
1. Person: Any natural or corporate person, whether public or private. 
2. Information System: A set of programs and devices designed to manage 
and process data, including computers. 
3. Information Network: An interconnection of more than one computer or 
information system to obtain and exchange data, e. g. Local Area Network 
(LAN), Wide Area Network (WAN), and the World Wide Web (Internet). 
4. Data:  Information,  commands,  messages,  voices,  or  images which  are 
prepared or have been prepared for use in computers. This includes data 
which can be saved, processed, transmitted, or constructed by computers, 
such as numbers, letters, symbols, etc.  
5. Computer  Programs:  A  set  of  commands  and  data  which  contain 
instructions or applications when run on computers or computer networks 
and perform required functions. 
6. Computer:  Any  electronic  device  whether  movable  or  fixed,  wired  or 
wireless,  which  is  equipped with  a  system  to  process,  store,  transmit, 
receive, or browse data, and which performs specific functions according to 
programs and commands. 
7. Unauthorized Access: The deliberate, unauthorized access of any person 
to computers, web sites, information systems, or computer networks. 
8. Cyber Crime: Any act which involves the use of computers or information 
networks, in violation of the provisions of this Law. 
9. Web Site: A site providing data on an information network through a specific 
Uniform Resource Locator (URL). 
10. Reception: Illegally viewing or obtaining data. 
Article 2 
This  Law  aims  at  combating cybercrimes  by  identifying such  crimes  and 
determining their punishments to ensure the following: 
1. Enhancing information security. 
2. Protecting  rights  pertaining  to  the  legitimate  use  of  computers  and 
information networks.  
3. Protecting public interest, morals, and common values. 
4. Protecting the national economy. 
  3 

NEW PAGE

Anti-Cyber Crime Law 
 
 
 
Article 3 
Any person who commits any of the following cybercrimes shall be subject to 
imprisonment for a period not exceeding one year and a fine not exceeding 
500,000 riyals, or either penalty:  
1. Spying  on,  or  interception or  reception  of  data  transmitted  through  an 
information network or a computer without legitimate authorization. 
2. Unauthorized access with the intention of threatening or blackmailing any 
person to compel him to take or refrain from taking an action, be it lawful or 
unlawful.  
3. Unauthorized access to a web site, or hacking a web site to change its 
design, destroy or modify it, or occupy its URL. 
4. Invasion of privacy through the misuse of camera-equipped mobile phones 
and the like. 
5. Defamation and infliction of damage upon others through the use of various 
information technology devices. 
Article 4 
Any person who commits any of the following cybercrimes shall be subject to 
imprisonment for a period not exceeding three years and a fine not exceeding 
2,000,000 riyals, or either penalty: 
1. Acquisition of movable property or bonds for oneself or others or signing 
such bonds through fraud or the use of a false name or identity. 
2. Illegal access to bank or credit data, or data pertaining to the ownership of 
securities with the intention of obtaining data, information, funds, or services 
offered. 
Article 5 
Any person who commits any of the following cybercrimes shall be subject to 
imprisonment for a period not exceeding four years and a fine not exceeding 
3,000,000 riyals, or either penalty: 
1. Unauthorized access with the intention of canceling, deleting, destroying, 
leaking, damaging, altering, or redistributing private data. 
2. Causing an information network to halt or breakdown, or destroying, deleting, 
leaking, damaging, or altering existing or used programs or data. 
3. Obstructing access to, distorting, or causing the breakdown of services by 
any means. 
Article 6 
Any person who commits any of the following cybercrimes shall be subject to 
imprisonment for a period not exceeding five years and a fine not exceeding 
3,000,000 riyals, or either penalty: 
  4 

NEW PAGE

Anti-Cyber Crime Law 
 
 
 
1. The production, preparation, transmission, or storage of material impinging 
on  public order,  religious values, public morals, or  privacy,  through an 
information network or computer.  
2. The construction or publication of a web site on an information network or 
computer to promote or facilitate human trafficking. 
3. The  preparation,  publication, or  promotion  of  material  for  pornographic 
networks or gambling activities which violates public morals. 
4. The construction or publication of a web site on an information network or 
computer to  trade,  distribute, demonstrate methods of  use,  or facilitate 
dealing in narcotic and psychotropic drugs. 
Article 6  
Any person who commits any of the following cybercrimes shall be subject to 
imprisonment for a period not exceeding five years and a fine not exceeding 
3,000,000 riyals, or either penalty: 
1. The production, preparation, transmission, or storage of material impinging 
on  public order,  religious values, public morals, or  privacy,  through an 
information network or computer.  
2. The construction or publication of a web site on an information network or 
computer to promote or facilitate human trafficking. 
3. The  preparation,  publication, or  promotion  of  material  for  pornographic 
networks or gambling activities which violates public morals. 
4. The construction or publication of a web site on an information network or 
computer to  trade,  distribute, demonstrate methods of  use,  or facilitate 
dealing in narcotic and psychotropic drugs. 
The sentence may provide for the publication of its summary at the expense of 
the  convicted  person  in  one  or  more  local  newspapers  or  in  any  other 
appropriate medium, depending on the type, gravity, and impact of the crime 
committed,  provided that  such  publication is  executed after  the  judgment 
becomes final. 
Article 7 
Any person who commits any of the following cybercrimes shall be subject to 
imprisonment for a period not exceeding 10 years and a fine not exceeding 
5,000,000 riyals, or either penalty: 
1. Establishing or publicizing a web site on an information network or computer 
for terrorist organizations to facilitate communication with the leaders or 
members of such organizations, finance them, promote their ideologies, 
publicize methods of making incendiary devices or explosives, or any other 
means used in terrorist activities. 
2. Unauthorized access to a web site or information system directly, or through 
an information network or computer to obtain data that threatens the internal 
or external security of the State or its national economy. 
  5 

NEW PAGE

Anti-Cyber Crime Law 
 
 
 
Article 8 
The imprisonment and the fine may not be less than half the maximum if the 
crime is coupled with any of the following: 
1. The crime is perpetrated through organized crime. 
2. The offender holds a public office and the crime perpetrated is related to this 
office, or the offender perpetrates the crime using his power or influence. 
3. The luring and exploitation of minors and the like. 
4. The offender has been previously convicted of  similar crimes within or 
outside the Kingdom. 
Article 9 
Any person who incites, assists, or collaborates with others to commit any of 
the crimes stipulated in this Law shall be subject to a punishment not exceeding 
the maximum punishment prescribed for such crimes, if the crime is committed 
as a result of said incitement, assistance, or collaboration, and he shall be 
subject  to  a  punishment  not  exceeding  half  the  maximum  prescribed 
punishment if the intended crime is not committed. 
Article 10 
Any person who attempts to commit any of the crimes stipulated in this Law 
shall be subject to a punishment not exceeding half the maximum punishment 
prescribed for said crimes. 
Article 11 
The competent court may exempt any offender from such punishments if he 
informs the competent authority of the crime prior to its discovery and prior to 
the infliction of damage. If the culprit informs the competent authority after the 
occurrence of the crime, the exemption from punishment shall be granted if the 
information he provides eventually leads to the arrest of other culprits (if any) 
or the seizure of the means used in the commission of the crime. 
Article 12 
Application of this Law shall not prejudice the provisions of relevant laws, 
especially  those  pertaining  to  intellectual  property  rights,  or  relevant 
international agreements to which the Kingdom is party. 
Article 13 
Without prejudice to the rights of bona fide persons, equipment, software, and 
means used in perpetrating any of the crimes stipulated in this Law or the 
proceeds generated therefrom may be confiscated. In addition, the web site or 
venue  where  the  service  is  provided  may  be  shut  down  permanently  or 
temporarily if  it  is the  source for perpetrating the  crime and the crime  is 
committed with the owner's knowledge. 
  6 

NEW PAGE

Anti-Cyber Crime Law 
 
 
 
Article 14 
The Communications and Information Technology Commission, pursuant to its 
powers, shall provide assistance and technical support to competent security 
agencies during the investigation of such crimes and during trial. 
Article 15 
The  Bureau  of  Investigation  and  Public  Prosecution  shall  carry  out  the 
investigation and prosecution of the crimes stipulated in this Law. 
Article 16 
This Law shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall enter into force 
120 days after the date of publication. 
  7 

NEW PAGE
Civil Defense Law 
 
Royal Decree No. M/10 
January 21, 1986 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Translation of Saudi Laws 

NEW PAGE

Civil Defense Law 
 
 
 
NOTE: 
The translation of Saudi laws takes the following into consideration: 
•  Words used in the singular form include the plural and vice versa.  
•  Words used in the masculine form include the feminine.  
•  Words used in the present tense include the present as well as the future.  
•  The word “person” or “persons” and their related pronouns (he, his, him, they, 
their, them) refer to a natural and legal person.  
 
   
  2 

NEW PAGE

Civil Defense Law 
 
 
 
Civil Defense Law 
Article 1 
Civil  defense  is  a  set  of  measures  and  actions  necessary  to  protect  the 
population as well as public and private property against the hazards of fires, 
disasters, wars, and other incidents, in addition to providing relief to victims, 
maintaining  the  safety  of  transportation,  communications,  and  the  proper 
operation of public utilities, and protecting national resources at times of peace, 
war, and emergencies. This shall include without limitation: 
a) setting rules and means of warning against hazards and air raids; 
b) training volunteers for civil defense work; 
c) setting rules and means of safety, industrial security, firefighting, rescue, first 
aid and relief operations, raid watch, and protection against weapons of 
destruction at times of peace and war; 
d) creating and training civil defense units of different specialties and providing 
them with necessary equipment and means; 
e) controlling lighting and traffic, and preparing and implementing evacuation 
and sheltering plans at times of war and emergencies; 
f)  establishing  and  equipping  civil  defense  operation  rooms  and  centers, 
building and managing public shelters, and overseeing shelters designated 
to protect the population at times of war and peace; 
g) stockpiling materials and equipment necessary for sustaining life at times of 
war, emergencies, and disasters; 
h) setting and implementing necessary measures to achieve safety, prevent 
disasters, and deal with the aftermath thereof, including provision of financial 
support or other types of support; and 
i)  using mass media to achieve civil defense objectives.  
Article 2 
The term disaster provided for in this Law shall mean any fire, destruction, 
torrent,  storm,  earthquake,  or  any  other  incident  that  causes  damage, 
endangers the lives of individuals, or causes harm to public or private property. 
Article 3 
Without prejudice to the laws and the decisions of the Supreme Defense 
Council issued in accordance with its Law, civil defense operations provided for 
in Article 1 of this Law shall be carried out by the following: 
a) Ministries,  government  agencies,  public  and  private  legal  persons, 
establishments, real property owners and occupants as well as owners and 
drivers of cars and other vehicles. 
b) Civil Defense Forces, other internal security forces, the National Guard, and 
  3 

NEW PAGE

Civil Defense Law 
 
 
 
the Armed Forces. 
c) Civil Defense volunteers. 
This shall be carried out in accordance with plans, rules, and procedures set by 
the Civil Defense Council in coordination with relevant agencies. 
Article 4 
Civil Defense shall consist of: 
−  the Civil Defense Council; 
−  the General Directorate of Civil Defense; and 
−  the Civil Defense Committees. 
Article 5  
The Civil Defense Council shall be composed as follows:  
a) Minister of Interior, chairman. 
b) Minister of the National Guard or his designee, member. 
c) President of the Red Crescent or his designee, member. 
d) President of King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology, member. 
e) Minister of Water and Electricity, member. 
f)  Minister of Commerce and Industry, member. 
g) Minister of Finance, member. 
h) Minister of Economy and Planning, member. 
i)  Minister of Municipal and Rural Affairs, member. 
j)  Minister of Agriculture, member. 
k) Minister of Transportation, member. 
l)  Minister of Health, member. 
m) Minister of Social Affairs, member. 
n) Minister of Culture and Information. 
o) Deputy Minister of Interior, member. 
p) President of Meteorology and Environment Protection, member. 
q) President of King Abdullah City for Atomic and Renewable Energy, member. 
r) Chief of the General Staff, member. 
s) Director-General of Public Security, member. 
t)  Director-General of Civil Defense, member. 
Article 6  
The  Civil  Defense  Council  shall  convene  under  the  chairmanship  of  its 
Chairman, or his designee, at least twice a year, and as necessary. A Council 
  4 

NEW PAGE

Civil Defense Law 
 
 
 
meeting shall be valid if attended by a majority of its members. In exceptional 
cases, the meeting shall be valid if attended by one-third of its members. 
Decisions shall be taken by majority vote of attending members. In case of a 
tie, the chairman of the meeting shall have the casting vote. The Chairman may 
determine exceptional cases. 
Article 7  
A. A  general  committee  for  civil  defense  operations  which  reports  to  the 
Chairman of the Civil Defense Council shall be formed as follows: 
1. Director-General of Civil Defense, chairman. 
2. A representative from the Ministry of the National Guard of a rank not 
lower than Major General, member. 
3. A representative from the Ministry of the Defense of a rank not lower than 
Major General, member. 
4. Director-General of Public Security or his designee, member. 
5. Director-General of Border Guard or his designee, member. 
6. Vice-President  of  King  Abdulaziz  City  for  Science  and  Technology, 
member. 
7. Assistant to the President of Meteorology and Environment Protection 
Authority, member. 
8. Vice-President of the Saudi Red Crescent, member. 
9. Deputy Minister of Finance, member. 
10. Deputy Minister of Health, member. 
11. Deputy Minister of Water and Electricity, member. 
12. Deputy Minister of Commerce and Industry, member. 
13. Deputy Minister of Transportation, member. 
14. Deputy Minister of Municipal and Rural Affairs, member. 
15. Vice-President of King Abdullah City for Atomic and Renewable Energy, 
member. 
16. Vice-Governor  of  Communications  and  Information  Technology 
Commission, member. 
17. General Secretary of the Civil Defense Council, member. 
B. The Civil Defense Council shall have a separate budget within the budget of 
the Ministry of Interior. 
C. The Civil Defense Council shall have a general secretary of a rank not lower 
than "Grade Fifteen" or equivalent to supervise the General Secretariat of 
the Council; he shall report to the Chairman of the Council. 
D. The General Secretariat of the Civil Defense Council shall have its own 
offices;  have  administrative  and  financial powers;  communicate  Council 
  5 

NEW PAGE

Civil Defense Law 
 
 
 
decisions and monitor their implementation; and provide the Council with 
necessary information and assistance.  
E. A search and rescue taskforce shall be formed within the General Secretariat 
of Civil Defense named the "National Taskforce for Search and Rescue" 
comprising specialists from relevant government agencies and volunteers in 
the fields of search, rescue, emergency medical care and other relevant 
fields to participate in search and rescue operations within the Kingdom and 
abroad, in accordance with rules issued by the Council. The taskforce may 
seek the assistance of highly specialized private companies as well as other 
entities with experience in civil defense. 
F. Administrative units shall be established within the General Secretariat of the 
Civil Defense Council to assume the following: 
1. Planning for civil defense operations and disaster management.  
2. Coordinating efforts in civil defense operations and disaster management 
including establishment of command center.  
3. Conducting research and gathering information.  
Article 8  
If the Civil Defense Council considers a matter within the jurisdiction of one or 
more government agencies that are not represented on the Council or the 
General Committee for Civil Defense Operations, the Council must take the 
views of said agency or agencies, issue its decision as it deems to be in the 
public interest, and notify said agency or agencies of its decision. 
Article 9  
A. Subject to relevant laws, the Civil Defense Council shall have the following 
powers: 
1. Adopting the general policy of Civil Defense operations. 
2. Approving the general plans for civil defense operations. 
3. Approving projects necessary for the implementation of the general policy 
and plans. 
4. Approving the tasks and duties of other agencies, government and non-
government, in relation to civil defense operations. 
5. Issuing regulations that specify safety rules and conditions required in 
various  industrial,  commercial,  and  agricultural  activities;  professions; 
works;  residential  buildings;  establishments,  and  infrastructure  in  a 
manner that guarantees the protection of lives as well as public and 
private property, in coordination with relevant agencies. 
6. Issuing regulations that stipulate the conditions and specifications for 
establishing public  and  private  shelters,  in  coordination with  relevant 
agencies. 
7. Issuing  regulations  for  volunteering  in  civil  defense  to  determine  the 
  6 

NEW PAGE

Civil Defense Law 
 
 
 
requirements, rights, and duties of volunteers. 
8. Adopting  the  general  policy  for  training  in  civil  defense  operations; 
implementing its plans and projects; and approving necessary programs 
therefor.  
9. Promoting  scientific  activities  and  research  in  areas  relating  to  civil 
defense operations and disaster management.  
10. Forming civil defense committees and determining their duties, work 
rules, locations, agencies represented therein, and the chairman of each 
committee. 
11. Determining  and  classifying  locations  and  facilities  subject  to  civil 
defense measures, whether in part or in whole, as well as locations and 
facilities where equipment for civil defense operations must be installed, 
and setting criteria for damage assessment and compensation. 
12. Determining the number and locations of civil defense operation rooms 
and centers and formation thereof; and linking them with operation 
rooms and centers of the military agencies and other agencies for the 
exchange of information and instructions. 
13. Reviewing the annual report on civil defense operations. 
14. Approving  means  of  international  cooperation  in  civil  defense  and 
disaster management.  
15. Approving  the  draft  annual  budget  of  the  Civil  Defense  General 
Directorate and the draft annual budget of the Civil Defense Council prior 
to submission to the Ministry of Finance. 
16. Proposing  financial  allocations  for  civil  defense  equipment  and  for 
implementation of its plans and projects within the budgets of Ministries 
and  other  government  entities  as  well  as  other  entities  with  public 
corporate personality, in coordination with relevant agencies. 
B. The General Committee for Civil Defense Operations shall have the following 
powers: 
1. Overseeing formulation of general policies and plans for civil defense 
operations,  submitting  the  same  to  the  Civil  Defense  Council,  and 
monitoring implementation thereof upon approval.  
2. Adopting government agencies' detailed plans relating to civil defense 
operations. 
3. Overseeing the review and assessment of general policies and plans for 
civil defense operations and propose amendments thereto. 
4. Enhancing coordination between relevant government agencies relating 
to civil defense operations, and overcoming obstacles encountered, if any. 
5. Supervising  disaster  management  operations,  addressing  possible 
challenges,  and  ensuring  cooperation  of  relevant  committees  and 
agencies in implementing disaster management plans and the efficiency 
of coordination among them. 
  7 

NEW PAGE

Civil Defense Law 
 
 
 
6. Directly addressing disasters assigned thereto pursuant to a decision by 
the Minister of Interior, Chairman of the Civil Defense Council. 
7. Overseeing the execution of disaster management drills in accordance 
with set plans, and the participation of all relevant entities, ensuring their 
efficiency in light of assessment outcomes, and working towards their 
enhancement. 
8. Overseeing the development and updating of information systems relating 
to civil defense operations and disaster management.  
9. Overseeing studies and research relating to civil defense operations, 
particularly disaster management. 
10. Approving  public  awareness  programs  relating  to  civil  defense 
operations in cooperation with relevant entities. 
11. Proposing laws and regulations relating to civil defense operations, 
ensuring their efficiency, proposing necessary amendments thereto, and 
submitting the same to the Civil Defense Council for completion of 
statutory procedures. 
12. Approving  the  formation  of  advisory  committees  for  civil  defense 
operations at the General Secretariat of the Civil Defense Council. 
13. Overseeing the performance of civil defense committees throughout the 
Kingdom,  assessing  their  efficiency,  and  making  necessary 
recommendations for submission to the Civil Defense Council.  
14. Overseeing means and programs for international cooperation in civil 
defense operations. 
15. Reviewing the annual report on civil defense operations and disaster 
management prior to submission to the Civil Defense Council.  
16. Reviewing matters relating to civil defense operations brought before it 
by the General Secretariat of the Civil Defense Council. 
17. Approving the agenda of the Civil Defense Council. 
18. Approving the draft budget and balance sheet of the Civil Defense 
Council prior to submission to the Council. 
19. Any other task assigned thereto by the Civil Defense Council. 
C. The General Secretariat of the Civil Defense Council shall have the following 
powers: 
1. Preparing for meetings of the Civil Defense Council and the General 
Committee for Civil Defense Operations. 
2. Reviewing matters to be included in the agenda of the meetings of the 
Civil  Defense  Council  and  the  General  Committee  for  Civil  Defense 
Operations. 
3. Drafting the minutes of the meetings of the Civil Defense Council and the 
General Committee for Civil Defense Operations. 
4. Coordinating with the entities concerned with civil defense operations and 
  8 

NEW PAGE

Civil Defense Law 
 
 
 
disaster management regarding the discharge of their duties. 
5. Setting  the  general  plans  for  civil  defense  operations  and  disaster 
management in coordination with relevant entities.  
6. Monitoring the preparation of the detailed plans relating to civil defense 
operations  and  disaster  management  by  the  relevant  entities  and 
reviewing such plans in coordination with the relevant entities prior to 
submission to the General Secretariat for Civil Defense Operations for 
approval. 
7. Communicating  the  decisions  of  the  Civil  Defense  Council  and  the 
General Committee for Civil Defense Operations to relevant entities and 
monitoring their execution. 
8. Coordinating the participation of the National Taskforce for Search and 
Rescue in the search and rescue operations within the Kingdom and 
abroad. 
9. Draft a comprehensive annual report on civil defense operations and 
disaster management in coordination with relevant entities. 
10. Overseeing civil defense and disaster management drills in coordination 
with relevant entities.  
11. Overseeing volunteering in civil defense operations.  
12. Drafting laws and regulations relating to civil defense operations and 
disaster management at the request of the Civil Defense Council or the 
General Committee for Civil Defense Operations. 
13. Gathering and classifying information and data relating to civil defense 
operations  and  disaster  management  in  coordination  with  relevant 
entities.  
14. Participating in the organization of symposia and forums relating to civil 
defense  operations  and  disaster  management  in  cooperation  with 
relevant entities.  
15. Conducting, publishing, and exchanging studies and research relating to 
civil defense operations and disaster management. 
16. Preparing the draft annual budget and balance sheet of the Civil Defense 
Council and bring the same before the General Committee for Civil 
Defense Operations, prior to submission to the Civil Defense Council for 
approval. 
17. Preparing public awareness programs on civil defense operations and 
disaster  management,  and  participating  in  their  implementation  in 
coordination with relevant entities. 
18. Coordinating with relevant entities with regards to the implementation of 
means  and  programs  for  international  cooperation  in  civil  defense 
operations and disaster management. 
19. Reviewing reports issued by the civil defense committees throughout the 
Kingdom, and making necessary recommendations. 
  9 

NEW PAGE

Civil Defense Law 
 
 
 
20. Reviewing proposals of government agencies relating to civil defense 
laws  and  regulations  and  bringing  the  same  before  the  General 
Committee  for  Civil Defense  Operations  for submission  to  the Civil 
Defense Council. 
21. Cooperating with the relevant entities to build Saudi capacity in disaster 
management, in cooperation with local and international training bodies. 
22. Any other tasks assigned thereto by the Civil Defense Council or the 
General Committee for Civil Defense Operations. 
Article 10 
The Chairman of the Civil Defense Council may, as he deems necessary, invite 
non-Council members to attend Council meetings in a non-voting capacity. 
Article 11 
The  Civil  Defense  Council  shall  exercise  its powers  at  times  of  war  and 
emergencies under the supervision of the Supreme Defense Council. 
Article 12  
Without prejudice to other laws, the Minister of Interior, Chairman of the Civil 
Defense Council, shall have the following powers: 
a) Coordinate between the Ministry of Interior on one hand and the Ministry of 
Defense,  the  Ministry  of  National  Guard,  and  the  General  Intelligence 
Presidency on the other hand for proper implementation of civil defense 
operations. 
b) Issue orders to conduct drills and exercises on civil defense operations to 
determine  the  adequacy,  efficiency,  and  readiness  of  civil  defense 
equipment. 
c) Issue orders to call on trained personnel to join civil defense formations. 
d) Issue  decisions  for  the  temporary  use  of  facilities,  buildings,  tools, 
equipment, means of transport, etc., necessary for implementation of civil 
defense plans, projects, and operations in exceptional cases, provided that 
a fair compensation is paid. 
e) Issue orders for the direct purchase of materials and equipment necessary 
for civil defense in cases of disasters, regardless of their value, within the 
amounts allocated for such purpose. 
f)  Determine the existence of a disaster. 
g) Declare a state of disaster. 
h) Issue decisions in the interest of civil defense. 
i)  The Council of Ministers may amend such powers. 
  10 

NEW PAGE

Civil Defense Law 
 
 
 
Article 13 
A. The General Directorate of Civil Defense shall be formed pursuant to a 
decision by the Minister of Interior, Chairman of the Civil Defense Council, in 
accordance with the budget. 
B. The Director General of Civil Defense shall be in charge of exercising the 
powers of the General Directorate of Civil Defense and its proper functioning, 
managing its affairs, and overseeing its organs and branches, in accordance 
with laws and instructions. 
Article 14  
Without prejudice to the laws and the Civil Defense Council's decisions, the 
General Directorate of Civil Defense shall have the following powers: 
a) Propose civil defense plans, projects, and operations and follow up on their 
implementation. 
b) Implement civil defense plans, projects, and operations falling within its 
powers and execute decisions issued by the Civil Defense Council and the 
Minister of the Interior, Chairman of the Civil Defense Council. 
c) Take appropriate measures to deal with disasters declared as such pursuant 
to a decision by the Minister of Interior, Chairman of the Civil Defense 
Council. For the proper implementation of its functions, the Directorate may 
utilize the resources of the military forces and other agencies, and request 
them to execute tasks and provide individuals and equipment. 
d) Provide food, clothing, shelter, medical treatment, financial aid, and other 
forms of assistance to victims at times of disasters, in accordance with 
regulations set by the Civil Defense Council. 
e) Coordinate  with  ministries  and  other  entities  concerned  with  the 
implementation of civil defense operations for the execution of civil defense 
plans, projects, and operations. 
f)  Develop civil defense in line with scientific and military advancements. 
g) Represent  the  Kingdom  at  international  and  local  organizations, 
conferences, symposia, and workshops relating to civil defense. 
h) Propose matters to be brought before the Civil Defense Council and conduct 
necessary related studies. 
i)  Make  necessary  recommendations  to  relevant  agencies  regarding 
compensation for damage caused by disasters or hostilities. 
j)  Carry  out  training  programs  necessary  for  civil  defense  operations  as 
approved by the Civil Defense Council. 
k) Propose appropriate times for conducting civil defense drills and exercises 
and for the call of trained individuals. 
l)  Propose the annual draft budget of the General Directorate of Civil Defense. 
m) The Council of Ministers may amend such powers. 
  11 

NEW PAGE

Civil Defense Law 
 
 
 
Article 15 
A civil defense director shall, within his jurisdiction, be responsible for carrying 
out civil defense operations and coordinating with relevant agencies regarding 
other procedures. 
Article 16 
Meals shall be provided at the expense of the State to persons carrying out civil 
defense operations during emergencies, disasters, and wars, in accordance 
with  regulations  set  by  the  Civil  Defense  Council  specifying  necessary 
conditions. 
Article 17 
The Civil Defense may call upon persons whose services are needed. The 
rights and duties of said persons as well as their affiliation with the agencies 
they work for shall be regulated in accordance with regulations issued pursuant 
to  a  Council  of  Ministers’  resolution  upon  a recommendation  by  the Civil 
Defense Council. 
Article 18 
Each person, even if not a volunteer, shall be responsible for providing possible 
assistance necessary for civil defense operations whenever required. 
Article 19 
The basics of civil defense shall be taught at all stages of public education, as 
well  as  civil  and  military  institutes  and  training  institutes  and  centers,  in 
accordance with  the information provided by the Civil Defense Council in 
consultation with relevant educational agencies. 
Article 20  
Licensing  in  cases  stipulated  in  Article  9(5)(a)  of  this  Law  shall  require 
compliance of the licensee with the conditions and safety rules issued by the 
Civil Defense Council. 
Article 21 
Shelters shall be established in parks, public squares, and other crowded 
places appropriate for establishing public shelters, in accordance with rules, 
conditions, and specifications set by the Civil Defense Council. 
Article 22 
All  administrative  agencies  shall  establish  shelters  on  their  premises,  in 
accordance with Civil Defense Council decisions. 
  12 

NEW PAGE

Civil Defense Law 
 
 
 
Article 23 
Companies and other private establishments shall cooperate with the General 
Directorate of Civil Defense to ensure the efficiency and availability of an 
adequate number of firefighters, rescue teams, vehicles, and equipment as well 
as  firefighting  and  rescue  supplies,  and  to  ensure  the  implementation  of 
preventive safety rules and procedures. 
Article 24 
The  General  Directorate  of  Civil  Defense  shall  coordinate  with  the 
administrative agencies that have safety departments or firefighting teams to 
ensure the efficiency and availability of an adequate number of firefighters, 
rescue teams, vehicles,  and equipment as well as firefighting and rescue 
supplies, and to ensure the implementation of preventive safety rules and 
procedures. 
Article 25 
Ministries, government agencies, and public corporate persons, as well as 
private establishments, designated pursuant to a decision by the Minister of 
Interior, Chairman of the Civil Defense Council, shall appoint or assign persons 
in charge of matters related to safety and industrial security in accordance with 
regulations issued by the Civil Defense Council. 
Article 26 
During the execution of civil defense measures and operations, the inviolability 
of buildings and facilities shall not be affected as much as possible, and harm 
shall be reduced to the minimum. 
Article 27 
Non-military civil defense personnel shall, at times of war, emergency, and 
disasters, be subject to military service regulations with regard to discipline, 
penalties, recording, and investigation of violations. 
Article 28  
Equipment or signs posted for civil defense purposes may not be removed or 
disabled without coordination with the Civil Defense Department. Violators shall 
be liable for the costs of returning the removed or disabled item to its former 
condition, and shall be subject to a fine not exceeding 50,000 riyals.  
Article 29  
Without prejudice to any other law, the Minister of Interior, Chairman of the Civil 
Defense Council, shall, in cases of emergency and disasters, issue decisions 
to implement the Civil Defense plan. Such decisions shall include penalties to 
be imposed against violators, provided that such penalties do not exceed one 
year of imprisonment and a fine not exceeding 50,000 riyals, or either penalty.  
  13 

NEW PAGE

Civil Defense Law 
 
 
 
Article 30  
A. Subject to Articles 27, 28, and 29, any person violating any of the provisions 
of this Law, its regulations, or decisions issued thereupon, shall be subject 
to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, a fine not exceeding 
30,000 riyals, or both. 
B. The Minister of Interior, Chairman of the Civil Defense Council shall form 
committees. Each committee shall consist of at least three members, with a 
member qualified in Sharia or law, to consider violations of this Law and 
impose prescribed penalties. If the committee determines that the violation 
warrants imprisonment, it shall refer the matter to the Board of Grievances.  
Article 31  
A penalty decision may be appealed before the Board of Grievances within 60 
days from the date of notification. 
Article 32 
Without prejudice to Article 27, violations of this Law shall be recorded and 
investigated in accordance with rules and procedures set by the Minister of 
Interior, Chairman of the Civil Defense Council. 
Article 33 
The Civil Defense Council shall issue regulations and decisions necessary for 
the implementation of this Law. 
Article 34  
The Council of Ministers shall have the right to construe this Law. 
Article 34 bis  
The Minister of Interior, Chairman of the Civil Defense Council, may delegate 
some of his powers under this Law. 
Article 35 
This Law shall repeal any conflicting provisions. 
Article 36 
This Law shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall enter into force six 
months from the date of its publication. 
  14 

NEW PAGE
Competition Law 
 
Royal Decree No. M/75 
March 6, 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Translation of Saudi Laws 

NEW PAGE

Competition Law 
 
 
 
NOTE: 
The translation of Saudi laws takes the following into consideration: 
•  Words used in the singular form include the plural and vice versa.  
•  Words used in the masculine form include the feminine.  
•  Words used in the present tense include the present as well as the future.  
•  The word “person” or “persons” and their related pronouns (he, his, him, they, 
their, them) refer to a natural and legal person.  
 
   
  2 

NEW PAGE

Competition Law 
 
 
 
Competition Law 
Article 1 
In this Law, the following terms shall have the meanings assigned thereto, 
unless the context requires otherwise: 
Law: Competition Law. 
Authority: General Authority for Competition. 
Board: The Authority's Board of Directors. 
Chairman: The Chairman of the Board. 
Governor: The Authority's Governor. 
Regulations: Implementing Regulations of the Law. 
Entity: Any natural or legal person engaged in an economic activity, including 
commercial,  agricultural,  industrial,  and  service  activities,  as  well  as  the 
purchase and sale of goods and services. 
Market: A physical place or any other medium where a group of current and 
prospective buyers and sellers meet within a specified period. 
Dominant Position: A situation in which an entity, or a group of entities, 
influences the market or controls a certain percentage thereof. The Regulations 
shall determine such percentage in accordance with criteria approved by the 
Board. 
Economic  Concentration:  Any  activity  that  results  in  the  total  or  partial 
transfer of ownership of assets, rights, stocks, shares, or obligations of an entity 
to another, or in the combining of two or more managements into one joint 
management, in accordance with the Regulations. 
Committee: The Committee for Adjudication of Violations of the Law. 
Article 2 
This Law aims to protect and encourage fair competition, and to combat and 
prevent  monopolistic  practices  that  affect  lawful  competition  or  consumer 
interest; thereby improving the market environment and promoting economic 
development. 
Article 3 
1. Without prejudice to the provisions of other laws, the provisions of this Law 
shall apply to: 
a) all entities within the Kingdom; and 
  3 

NEW PAGE

Competition Law 
 
 
 
b) practices taking place outside the Kingdom which have an adverse effect 
on fair competition within the Kingdom, in accordance with the provisions 
of this Law. 
2. Paragraph (1) of this Article shall not apply to public establishments and 
State-owned companies if such establishments or companies are granted 
exclusive rights by the Government to provide goods or services in a certain 
field. 
3. The Authority shall have original jurisdiction over any matter arising from the 
application of this Law, or conflicting or overlapping with the jurisdiction of 
other governmental entities. 
The  Regulations  shall  determine  the  rules  that  must  be  observed  in  the 
application of this Article. 
Article 4 
The prices of goods and services shall be in accordance with market rules and 
free competition principles, except for prices of goods and services determined 
pursuant to a resolution issued by the Council of Ministers, or an applicable law. 
Article 5 
Practices which deliberately or inadvertently prejudice competition, whether 
written or verbal, explicit or implicit, including agreements or contracts between 
entities, shall be prohibited, particularly the following: 
1. Determining or proposing prices of goods, fees of service, and terms of sale 
or purchase, and the like. 
2. Determining  the  goods'  sizes,  weights,  and  production  quantities,  or 
determining the performance of services. 
3. Restricting the free flow of goods and services to or from markets in whole 
or in part by unjustly concealing, storing, or refusing to deal therein. 
4. Any conduct that obstructs the entry of an entity into the market or leads to 
its exclusion therefrom. 
5. Preventing a particular entity or entities from accessing goods and services 
available in the market, in whole or in part. 
6. Dividing  markets  for  the  sale  or  purchase  of  goods  and  services,  or 
designating them according to any specific criteria, particularly: 
a) geographical areas; 
b) distribution centers; 
c) customer type; and 
d) seasons and time periods. 
7. Freezing  or  limiting  the  manufacturing,  development,  distribution,  and 
marketing process, as well as all other investment activities. 
8. Colluding or coordinating in bids or offers of government tenders, auctions, 
and the like, in a manner that prejudices competition. 
  4 

NEW PAGE

Competition Law 
 
 
 
Article 6 
Any entity having a dominant position in the market or a substantial part thereof 
shall be prohibited from exploiting such position to prejudice or limit competition, 
including the following: 
1. Selling goods or services at a price lower than their total cost to force entities 
out  of  the  market  or  subject  them  to  substantial  losses,  or  to obstruct 
potential entities from entering the market. 
2. Determining or imposing prices or terms for the resale of goods or services. 
3. Decreasing or increasing quantities of available products to control prices 
and create a false sense of abundance or shortage. 
4. Discriminating among entities under similar contracts in relation to prices of 
goods and fees of services or their terms of sale and purchase. 
5. Refusing to deal with another entity without a valid reason to obstruct its entry 
into the market. 
6. Requiring an entity to refrain from dealing with another entity. 
7. Making the sale of goods or the provision of services conditional upon 
incurring obligations or accepting goods or services which, by their nature or 
by commercial use, are not related to the goods or services subject of the 
original contract or transaction. 
Article 7 
Entities seeking to join an economic concentration transaction must notify the 
Authority at least 90 days prior to the completion of such transaction if the total 
value of the entities' annual sales exceeds the amount determined by the 
Regulations. 
Article 8 
The  Board  may,  in  accordance  with  the  Regulations  and  upon  the 
recommendation of a technical committee formed for such purpose, approve 
an entity's request to be exempted from any of the provisions of Articles 5, 6, 
and 7 of this Law, if this improves market performance or improves the entity's 
performance in terms of product quality, technological development, or creative 
efficiency, provided the consumer's benefit from such exemption outweighs the 
effects of restricting freedom of competition. 
Article 9 
1. The Regulations shall determine the procedures that must be followed in 
economic  concentration  notifications,  as  well  as  the  required  content, 
information, and documents. 
2. The Authority may access and obtain copies of all records, data, files, and 
documents of the entities taking part in the economic concentration. 
Article 10 
The  Board  shall  issue  a  decision  concerning  economic  concentration 
notifications in any of the following forms: 
  5 

NEW PAGE

Competition Law 
 
 
 
1. Approval. 
2. Conditional approval. 
3. Refusal. 
The refusal and conditional approval decisions must be reasoned. 
Article 11 
The entities referred to in Article 7 of this Law may not complete the procedures 
of economic concentration except in the following cases: 
1. The Authority's written notification of the approval. 
2. The lapse of 90 days from the date of notification without the Authority's 
written notice of the Board's approval or refusal. 
Article 12 
1. Authority employees and Board members, except for members selected for 
their  merits,  shall  be  prohibited  from  engaging  in  business  activities. 
Authority employees shall also be prohibited from engaging in any profession 
that conflicts with the Authority's work and its objectives. The Board shall 
adopt the rules for disclosure and transparency. 
2. The  Authority  shall  be  prohibited  from  receiving  gifts,  donations, 
endowments,  bequests,  grants,  or  aid,  except  for  those  offered  by 
government agencies. 
Article 13 
1. Board members and Authority employees must maintain the confidentiality 
of information, records, data, files, and documents they obtain from entities 
while gathering evidence or conducting investigations, and they may not 
share them with a third party without the Authority's approval. 
2. The Chairman, the Governor, or any Board member may not access or 
participate in a deliberation concerning a case or matter if he has an interest 
or relationship therein, is related to one of the parties by blood or marriage, 
or  has  represented  one  of  them.  The  Regulations  shall  determine  the 
relevant rules. 
Article 14 
1. The Board shall issue a reasoned decision approving inquiry, search, and 
evidence-gathering  procedures  with  respect  to  the  investigation  of 
complaints and reports relating to violations of this Law, as well as the filing 
or closing of a criminal action related thereto. 
2. The Chairman or the Governor may, in exigent circumstances, issue a 
decision to inquire, search, gather evidence, or investigate practices which 
prejudice competition, provided said decision is presented to the Board at 
the first meeting following its issuance. 
Article 15 
Officers designated by the Board shall undertake the following: 
  6 

NEW PAGE

Competition Law 
 
 
 
1. Inquiring, searching, gathering evidence, and recording violations of this Law 
and shall have judicial recording capacity. They shall also have the right to 
enter the entities' premises, offices, and branches during regular business 
hours, access their books and documents, and make copies thereof and a 
report to this effect shall be signed by the officers and the entity's employee 
present at the time of recording the violation. In competition-related cases, 
they  may  use  all  means  of  proof,  including  electronic  and  computer-
generated  data,  telephone  recordings,  facsimile  correspondence,  and 
electronic mail. The Regulations shall specify their powers and work rules. 
2. Conducting interrogations and investigations and prosecuting violations of 
this Law. 
Article 16 
1. An entity may not prevent a law enforcement officer or investigator from 
carrying out a task assigned to him in accordance with the powers conferred 
upon him by this Law, nor may it withhold information, provide misleading 
information, or conceal or destroy documents that benefit the investigation. 
2. The Authority may, when necessary, seek the assistance of the competent 
authorities, including law enforcement agencies, to enable law enforcement 
officers to carry out their duties. 
Article 17 
The Authority may request relevant official authorities to provide it with periodic 
reports on entities operating in the market, or when needed, as specified by the 
Regulations. 
Article 18 
1. Pursuant to a decision by the Board, and the nomination of the Chairman, a 
committee shall be formed comprising five experts—three of whom shall be 
legal specialists—for a renewable term of three years. Said Committee shall 
adjudicate violations of this Law and its Regulations, except for the violations 
referred to in Article 12(1) and Article 24, and shall impose the penalties 
provided for in this Law. The decision shall designate the Committee's 
chairman from among its legal specialists. Committee decisions shall be 
passed by  majority  vote  and  shall be  reasoned.  The  Regulations  shall 
determine the Committee's work procedures. 
2. If the seat of a Committee member becomes vacant, another member may 
be appointed to fill his seat for the remainder of the Committee's term. 
3. Committee decisions may be appealed before the competent court within 30 
days from the date of the violator's notification. If the decision is overturned, 
the competent court shall review the violation and impose the appropriate 
penalty in accordance with the provisions of this Law. 
Article 19 
1. Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 24 of this Law, any person 
violating any of the provisions of Articles 5, 6, 7, and 11 of this Law shall be 
subject to a fine not exceeding 10% of the total value of the annual sales 
subject of the violation, or a fine not exceeding 10 million riyals if it is not 
  7 

NEW PAGE

Competition Law 
 
 
 
feasible to estimate the annual sales. The Committee may, at its discretion, 
impose a fine not exceeding three times the gains the violator accrues from 
the commission of the violation. 
2. Without prejudice to any harsher penalty provided for by this Law or any 
other law, or the provisions of paragraph (1) of this Article, any person 
violating any of the provisions of Article 16 of this Law shall be subject to a 
fine not exceeding 5% of  the value of the annual sales, or a  fine not 
exceeding 5 million riyals if it is not feasible to estimate the annual sales. 
3. If the violator repeats the violation, the Committee may double the fine 
imposed for the first violation. The violator shall be deemed a recidivist if the 
same violation is committed within three years from the date the decision on 
the first violation is issued. 
4. The decision on violations provided for in this Article shall be published at 
the expense of the violator in a local newspaper issued in the area where he 
resides or in any other appropriate media outlet, provided that the judgment 
or decision is published after becoming final. 
5. The Board shall issue a decision specifying the cases where the publication 
provided for in paragraph (4) of this Article is not mandatory. The Regulations 
shall provide the necessary rules to be observed. 
Article 20 
Without prejudice to the provisions of Articles 12(1), 19, and 24 of this Law, any 
person violating any of the provisions of this Law or its Regulations shall be 
subject to a fine not exceeding 2 million riyals. 
Article 21 
Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 19 of this Law, the Board may take 
one or more of the following measures in the event of any violation to the 
provisions of this Law: 
1. Requiring the violator to make the necessary changes to rectify the violation 
within a specified period. 
2. The Board may, upon issuance of the Committee's decision to impose the 
penalty, take one or more of the following measures:  
a) Requiring the violator to dispose of certain assets, shares, or property 
rights, or to perform any other act to ensure the violation is rectified. 
b) Requiring the violator to pay a daily fine not exceeding 10 thousand riyals 
until the violation is rectified within the period specified in the Board's 
decision. If such period lapses without rectifying the violation, the daily fine 
shall be doubled pending rectification. 
c) Closing the entity temporarily for a period not exceeding 30 days, if the 
violation continues after the lapse of 90 days from the Board's notification. 
The Regulations shall determine the rules necessary for the application of such 
measures. 
  8 

NEW PAGE

Competition Law 
 
 
 
Article 22 
When imposing the penalties and applying the measures stipulated in Articles 
19, 20, and 21 of this Law, the following shall, on a case-by-case basis, be 
considered: 
1. If an entity engages in different activities, a fine shall be imposed on the 
activity subject of the violation, and the value of the fine shall take into 
account the nature of the activity. 
2. Circumstances of the violation. 
3. Gravity of the violation. 
4. Effect of the violation. 
Article 23 
The Board may decide not to refer to the Committee the entity in violation of the 
provisions of this Law if such entity cooperates in providing evidence to reveal 
its accomplices in that violation. The Board may also accept a settlement with 
the violating entity. The Regulations shall determine the necessary rules and 
requirements, as well as the method for compensating aggrieved parties. 
Article 24 
Without prejudice to any harsher penalty provided by this Law or any other law, 
a fine not exceeding 1 million riyals shall be imposed on any person who 
discloses work-related confidential information, whether a Board member or an 
Authority employee for the purpose of achieving material or immaterial gain. 
Article 25 
Any natural or legal person who sustains damage due to acts committed in 
violation of this Law may petition the competent court for compensation. 
Article 26 
This Law shall supersede the Competition Law, promulgated by Royal Decree 
No. (M/25) dated 4/5/1425H. 
Article 27 
The  Board  shall  issue  the  Regulations  within  180  days  from  the  date  of 
publication of this Law in the Official Gazette. The Regulations shall enter into 
force on the date this Law becomes effective. 
Article 28 
This Law shall enter into force 180 days following the date of its publication in 
the Official Gazette. 
  9 

NEW PAGE
E-Commerce Law
 
Royal Decree No. M/126 
July 10, 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Translation of Saudi Laws 

NEW PAGE

 
E-Commerce Law 
 
 
 
 
NOTE: 
The translation of Saudi laws takes the following into consideration: 
•  Words used in the singular form include the plural and vice versa.  
•  Words used in the masculine form include the feminine.  
•  Words used in the present tense include the present as well as the future.  
•  The word “person” or “persons” and their related pronouns (he, his, him, they, their, 
them) refer to a natural and legal person.  
 
   
  2 
 
 

NEW PAGE

 
E-Commerce Law 
 
 
 
 
E-Commerce Law 
Article 1 
In this Law, the following terms shall have the meanings assigned thereto, 
unless the context requires otherwise: 
Law: E-Commerce Law. 
Regulations: Implementing Regulations of the Law. 
Ministry: Ministry of Commerce. 
Minister: Minister of Commerce. 
E-Commerce: An activity of economic nature undertaken, in whole or in part, 
by  a  service  provider  and  a  consumer  through  electronic  means  to  sell 
products,  provide  services,  advertise  the  same,  or  exchange data  related 
thereto. 
Data: Information of any source or form used, directly or indirectly, in an e-
commerce transaction. 
Person: A natural or legal person. 
Merchant: A person registered in the Commercial Register who practices e-
commerce. 
Practitioner: A person who practices e-commerce but not registered in the 
Commercial Register. 
Service Provider: A merchant or practitioner. 
Consumer: A person who engages in e-commerce to obtain products or 
services provided by a service provider. 
Contract: An agreement concluded electronically between parties conducting 
e-commerce transactions. 
E-Shop: An electronic platform through which a service provider displays or 
sells a product, provides a service, advertises the same, or exchanges data 
related thereto. 
E-Shop  Authentication  Entity:  An  entity  licensed  by  the  Ministry  to 
authenticate electronic shops. 
Electronic Communication: A statement, declaration, notification, request, or 
offer made by contracting parties via electronic means while negotiating or 
executing a contract. 
Electronic  Advertisement:  Any  advertisement  carried  out  by  a  service 
  3 
 
 

NEW PAGE

 
E-Commerce Law 
 
 
 
 
provider via electronic means to directly or indirectly promote the sale of a 
product or the provision of a service. 
Electronic Means: Any information and communications technology (ICT) 
medium, whether electrical, electromagnetic, visual, optical, digital, or any other 
form of similar technology. 
Article 2 
The provisions of this Law shall apply to: 
a)  service providers in the Kingdom; 
b)  practitioners  outside  the  Kingdom  who  offer  products  or  services  to 
consumers in the Kingdom in a manner that enables them to have access 
thereto; and 
c)  consumers. 
Article 3 
1.  For the purposes of applying the provisions of this Law,  the business 
address of a service provider shall refer to the following: 
a)  For a merchant: his business address as specified in the Commercial 
Register. 
b)  For a practitioner: his business address as specified in his e-shop, 
unless otherwise indicated. 
2.  If a service provider has more than one place of business, none of which 
has been selected as a business address, his business address shall be the 
one most closely connected to the contract, taking into consideration the 
circumstances the parties were aware of or anticipated prior to or at the time 
of concluding the contract. 
3.  If a practitioner is a natural person and does not have a place of business, 
his business address shall be his permanent address. The Regulations shall 
determine the necessary terms and conditions. 
4.  A  place  of  business  shall  not  be  deemed  a  business  address  merely 
because it houses equipment and technology supporting an information 
system used by the service provider to conclude the contract, or because it 
is where such information system may be accessed by other parties. 
5.  A service provider’s use of a domain or e-mail address connected to a 
specific country shall not create a presumption that his business address is 
located in that country. 
  4 
 
 

NEW PAGE

 
E-Commerce Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 4 
If a consumer makes an error in an electronic communication made through an 
ICT medium that cannot be rectified, he may notify the service provider of such 
error as soon as he becomes aware of it within the time limit prescribed by the 
Regulations. Such notification shall be deemed rectification of the error, unless 
the consumer has used or benefited from the service provider's product or 
service. 
Article 5 
1.  Without prejudice to the provisions of other laws, a service provider shall not 
retain a consumer's personal data or electronic communications, except for 
the period required by the nature of the electronic transaction, unless a 
different period is agreed upon. Necessary measures shall be taken to 
protect and maintain the confidentiality of such data during the retention 
period.  The  service  provider  shall  be  responsible  for  protecting  the 
consumer's electronic communications or personal data in his possession 
or in the possession of the entities or agents thereof he deals with. The 
Regulations shall specify personal data deemed confidential. 
2.  A service provider shall not use a consumer's personal data or electronic 
communications for unauthorized or impermissible purposes, nor disclose 
the same to other entities, whether at no cost or for a consideration, unless 
the consumer consents to such disclosure or is required by law. 
Article 6 
A service provider shall disclose the following in his e-shop: 
a)  his name or any identifying characteristic, and his address, unless he is 
registered with an e-shop authentication entity; 
b)  his contact information; 
c)  name and number of his commercial registration, if any, or of any other 
publicly available register; and 
d)  any other data specified by the Regulations. 
Article 7 
A service provider shall provide the consumer with a statement that includes 
the terms and conditions of the contract to be concluded, in addition to the 
following: 
a)  procedures to be taken to conclude the contract; 
  5 
 
 

NEW PAGE

 
E-Commerce Law 
 
 
 
 
b)  information related to the service provider; 
c)  basic characteristics of the products or services subject of the contract; 
d)  total price, including all charges and taxes, and delivery fees, if any; 
e)  arrangements relating to payment, processing, and delivery; 
f)  warranty information, if any; and 
g)  any other information specified by the Regulations. 
The  Regulations  shall  specify  the  rules  governing  the  service  provider’s 
provision of information according to the nature of each transaction. 
Article 8 
Upon conclusion of a contract, the service provider shall provide the consumer 
with an itemized invoice stating the total price, including all charges and taxes, 
and delivery fees, if any, as well as the date and place of delivery, as specified 
by the Regulations. 
Article 9 
A service provider practicing a regulated profession which requires a license or 
permit shall disclose the following: 
a)  The agency he is registered with, and the details of the license or permit 
issued thereby. 
b)  His professional title and the granting country. 
c)  Any other information specified by the Regulations. 
Article 10 
1.  An electronic advertisement shall be deemed an integral part of the contract, 
and shall be legally binding. 
2.  An electronic advertisement shall include: 
a)  name of the advertised product or service; 
b)  name of the service provider and any identifying characteristic, unless 
he is registered with an e-shop authentication entity; 
c)  contact information of the service provider; and 
d)  any other information specified by the Regulations. 
  6 
 
 

NEW PAGE

 
E-Commerce Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 11 
An electronic advertisement must not include: 
a)  a false offer, statement, or claim, or a misrepresentation that directly or 
indirectly deceives or misleads a consumer; or 
b)  a logo or trademark that is either counterfeit or the service provider does not 
hold the right to use. 
Article 12 
Without prejudice to the penalties stipulated in Article 18 of this Law, if a service 
provider is proved to have violated any of the provisions of Article 10(2) or 
Article 11, the Ministry may compel the service provider to rectify the violation 
or withdraw the advertisement within one day from the date of notification. 
Article 13 
1.  Without prejudice to contractual and regulatory provisions of the warranty, 
a consumer may, in cases not provided for in paragraph (2) of this Article, 
rescind the contract within seven days following the date of receipt of the 
product or the date of the service contract, provided he has not used the 
product, received the service, or benefitted from either one. In such case, 
the consumer shall bear the cost of rescinding the contract unless agreed 
otherwise. 
2.  Notwithstanding paragraph (1) of this Article, a consumer may not rescind 
a contract in the following cases: 
a)  If the subject of the contract is a customized product or a product 
manufactured at the consumer’s request, except for defective products 
or products that do not meet agreed specifications. 
b)  If the subject of the contract is videotapes, records, compact discs, or 
computer software that have been used. 
c)  If the subject of the contract is the purchase of newspapers, magazines, 
books, or other publications. 
 
d)  If the defect is attributed to the consumer’s mishandling of the product. 
e)  If  the  subject  of  the  contract  is  the  provision  of  accommodation, 
transportation, or catering services. 
f)  If the subject of the contract is the purchase of an online downloadable 
software, except for faulty software that cannot be downloaded or does 
  7 
 
 

NEW PAGE

 
E-Commerce Law 
 
 
 
 
not conform to the agreed specifications. 
g)  Other cases specified by the Regulations according to the nature of the 
product or service. 
Article 14 
1.  Unless a service provider and a consumer agree to extend the date for 
delivery of item(s) or execution of service(s) subject of the contract, the 
consumer shall be entitled to rescind the contract if the service provider 
delays  delivery  or  execution  for  more  than  15  days  from  the  date  of 
concluding  the  contract  or  the  agreed  date,  and  demand  a  refund  of 
amounts paid under the contract and any other costs incurred due to such 
delay, unless the delay is due to force majeure. 
2.  Without prejudice to paragraph (1) of this Article, a service provider shall 
notify the consumer of any anticipated delay or of any circumstances that 
may affect the delivery of the items subject of the contract or the execution 
thereof. 
Article 15 
A merchant shall register his e-shop in the Commercial Register pursuant to 
the Law of Commercial Register. The Regulations shall specify the necessary 
requirements. 
Article 16 
The Ministry shall oversee the e-commerce sector and shall issue, as needed, 
the rules necessary to regulate the sector, including the following entities and 
platforms, for the purpose of enhancing e-commerce and ensuring the safety 
of its transactions, including the following: 
a)  E-shop authentication entities. 
b)  Electronic platforms acting as intermediaries between a service provider 
and a consumer. 
Article 17 
If a service provider violates any of the provisions of this Law or its Regulations, 
the Minister, or his designee, may, in urgent cases, issue a decision to partially 
or completely block his e-shop, in coordination with the competent authority, 
until the violation is rectified or decided upon, whichever is earlier, and refer the 
violation  to  the  committee  stipulated  in  Article  19(1)  of  this  Law  within  a 
maximum period of three days from the date of blocking the e-shop, provided 
  8 
 
 

NEW PAGE

 
E-Commerce Law 
 
 
 
 
the committee issues its decision within a period not exceeding 10 days from 
the date of referral. The committee may, for justifiable reasons, suspend the 
decision of partial or complete blocking of the e-shop. 
Article 18 
Without prejudice to any harsher penalty provided for in other laws, a person 
who violates any of the provisions of this Law or its Regulations shall be subject 
to one or more of the following penalties: 
a)  A warning. 
b)  A fine not exceeding 1,000,000 riyals. 
c)  Temporary or permanent suspension of the e-commerce activity. 
d)  Blocking the e-shop, partially or completely, temporarily or permanently, in 
coordination with the competent authority. 
Article 19 
1.  One or more committees shall be formed pursuant to a decision by the 
Minister to consider violations of the provisions of this Law or its Regulations 
and to impose the penalties stipulated in Article 18 of this Law, provided the 
committee is composed of not less than three members, including at least 
a legal advisor. Committee decisions shall be issued by majority vote. The 
Minister  shall,  pursuant  to  a  decision  issued  thereby,  determine  the 
committee work procedures and remuneration of its members. 
2.  The penalty imposed shall be proportionate with the gravity and frequency 
of the violation, the damage it caused to others, and the size of activity of 
the service provider. 
Article 20 
Any person may appeal a decision issued against him pursuant to this Law 
before the Administrative Court in accordance with the Law of Procedures 
before the Board of Grievances. 
Article 21 
A decision imposing a penalty may include the publication of the verdict at the 
expense of the violator in one or more local newspapers published in the area 
where he resides, or through any other appropriate medium, depending on the 
type, gravity, and impact of the violation committed, provided the publication 
takes place after the decision becomes unappealable due to the lapse of the 
statutory period for appeal or the judgment rendered thereon becomes final. 
  9 
 
 

NEW PAGE

 
E-Commerce Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 22 
The competent court shall rule on disputes, including compensation claims 
arising from the implementation of this Law. 
Article 23 
Monitoring  and  inspecting  e-commerce  transactions  and  detecting  any 
violations of this Law and its Regulations shall be carried out by employees 
appointed pursuant to a decision by the Minister. 
Article 24 
In cases where this Law is silent, e-commerce shall be subject to the provisions 
of the Electronic Transactions Law and other relevant laws.  
Article 25 
The Minister shall issue the Regulations within 90 days from the date of 
publication of this Law in the Official Gazette, and shall enter into force on the 
date this Law becomes effective. 
Article 26 
This Law shall enter into force 90 days following its publication in the Official 
Gazette. 
 
  10 
 
 

NEW PAGE
Contractors Classification Law 
 
Royal Decree No. M/18 
April 18, 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Translation of Saudi Laws 

NEW PAGE

Contractors Classification Law 
 
 
 
NOTE: 
The translation of Saudi laws takes the following into consideration: 
•  Words used in the singular form include the plural and vice versa.  
•  Words used in the masculine form include the feminine.  
•  Words used in the present tense include the present as well as the future.  
•  The word “person” or “persons” and their related pronouns (he, his, him, they, 
their, them) refer to a natural and legal person.  
 
   
  2 

NEW PAGE

Contractors Classification Law 
 
 
 
Contractors Classification Law 
Article 1 
In this Law, the following terms shall have the meanings assigned thereto, 
unless the context requires otherwise: 
Regulations: Implementing Regulations of the Contractors Classification Law. 
Decisions: Decisions issued by the Minister of Municipal and Rural Affairs in 
implementation of the Law and its Regulations. 
Minister: Minister of Municipal and Rural Affairs. 
Ministry: Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs. 
Classification:  The  assessment  of  a  contractor's  financial,  technical, 
administrative, and execution capabilities, in order to classify said contractor in 
the appropriate field and grade in accordance with the provisions of this Law 
and its Regulations. 
Contractor: A natural or corporate person licensed to execute, solely or jointly, 
a contract in one of the fields specified in the Regulations.  
Field: Type of work under which a contractor is classified. 
Activity: Type of specialized sub-category in any field of work. 
Grade: The grade a contractor obtains upon classification. 
Element: A set of assessment criteria.  
Article 2 
The Ministry shall classify contractors in accordance with the provisions of this 
Law and its Regulations. 
Article 3 
Ministries, government agencies, and public corporate entities may not accept 
any offer or bid for any project subject to classification unless the contractor is 
classified,  and  the  project  is  within  the  field and  grade under  which  said 
contractor is classified.  
Article 4 
Classification fields and grades and the maximum limit of each grade shall be 
determined  and  amended  pursuant  to  a  decision  by  the  Minister,  upon 
agreement with the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy and 
Planning.  
Article 5 
A contractor may apply for classification in one or more of the fields stated in 
his commercial register.  
  3 

NEW PAGE

Contractors Classification Law 
 
 
 
Article 6 
1. A contractor shall be classified in the grade consistent with his financial, 
technical, administrative, and execution capabilities in one classification field 
or more, according to the elements and criteria specified in the Regulations. 
2. The financial capabilities shall be assessed on the basis of the balance sheet 
(budget), income statement (profit and loss account), financial ratios, and the 
administrative and financial systems enforced. 
3. Administrative and technical capabilities shall be assessed on the basis of 
the efficient management, organization, recording, and control of financial, 
technical, and execution activities.  
4. Execution capabilities shall be assessed on the basis of executed projects 
or  projects  under  execution,  in  the  public  or  private  sectors  within  the 
Kingdom or abroad.   
Article 7 
A contractor classified in one or more fields shall be deemed classified in 
operation and maintenance in the same field(s) and at the same grade. Yet, 
said contractor may be classified in operation and maintenance at a grade 
higher than his grade in execution.  
Article 8 
If classification principles and elements change in such a way that may lead to 
classification upgrades, a classified contractor may- after the lapse of not less 
than half the duration of the certificate's validity- apply for the reclassification of 
his grade, supporting his application with necessary information and data.  
Article 9 
The Minister, or his designee, shall issue a decision to classify a contractor in 
the appropriate field(s) and grade, based on available information and the 
assessment points he attains. A certificate to this effect shall be issued. Said 
certificate shall be valid for a period of four years.  
Article 10 
The Minister shall issue a decision identifying the activities in any of the fields 
specified in the Regulations. A contractor specializing in a particular activity 
within a field may limit his classification to such activity. 
Article 11 
If two or more contractors jointly execute a project, each of them shall be 
classified in the project's field and at least one of them shall be classified in the 
required field and grade. When calculating execution experience, the contractor 
with the lower grade shall benefit from the work he executed in the project, 
provided that such benefit does not exceed twice the maximum limit of his grade 
  4 

NEW PAGE

Contractors Classification Law 
 
 
 
or 40% of the value of the executed project, whichever is less. The same shall 
apply to subcontractors. 
Article 12 
If a classified sole proprietorship transforms into a company in accordance with 
the Companies Law, said company shall have the same classification grade of 
the proprietorship, under the following conditions: 
1. The owner of the sole proprietorship is a partner in the company. 
2. The proprietorship's assets and liabilities are transferred to the company. 
3. All financial, technical, and administrative assets according to which the 
proprietorship was classified are transferred to such company.  
Article 13 
If a classified sole proprietorship transforms into a company where the owner 
of the proprietorship is not a partner, the proprietorship's classification shall be 
revoked and the company shall be classified at the grade consistent with its 
financial,  administrative,  and  technical  capabilities,  regardless  of  the 
proprietorship's previous classification. In cases where all the proprietorship’s 
assets and liabilities are transferred to the company, in addition to all the 
financial,  administrative,  and  technical  assets  according  to  which  the 
proprietorship was classified, the proprietorship’s past execution experience 
shall be taken into account in the classification of the new company.      
Article 14 
A contractor licensed to operate under the Foreign Investment Law shall be 
classified according to applicable procedures for the classification of Saudi 
contractors.  
Article 15 
1. Companies licensed to operate under the Foreign Investment Law shall be 
classified in accordance with their classification capabilities, regardless of 
the  partners'  classification  capabilities.  A  foreign  partner's  classification 
capabilities may not be considered, unless said partner is a joint partner in 
the company, or has committed in the company's articles of incorporation 
and  its  license  application  to  support  it  financially,  technically,  and 
administratively, in such a manner that guarantees its sound performance 
and the fulfillment of obligations, in accordance with the conditions specified 
by the Regulations. 
The  classification  certificate  shall  include  a  provision  that  provides  for  its 
invalidity, unless the foreign partner submits a guarantee of the company's 
fulfillment of its obligations when the company submits any offer or tender.  
2. A foreign partner's classification capabilities may not be considered in case 
said partner is classified as a foreign contractor, if these capabilities are 
considered in accordance with the previous paragraph.  
  5 

NEW PAGE

Contractors Classification Law 
 
 
 
Article 16 
In case a company licensed to operate under the Foreign Investment Law winds 
up and a company fully owned by Saudi nationals is established to replace it, 
the new company shall be reclassified according to its classification capabilities, 
unless all the assets as well as the financial, technical, and administrative 
capabilities of the wound up company are transferred to the new company. This 
new  company  shall  have  the  same  classification  grade  as  the  wound  up 
company until the end of the classification period.  
Article 17 
Classification certificates shall be issued, amended, and revoked according to 
the  provisions  of  this  Law,  its  Regulations,  and  the  decisions  issued  in 
implementation thereof.  
Article 18 
A contractor's classification shall be revoked in the following two cases: 
1. If a decision is issued by the competent authority establishing forgery of any 
of the basic data or information upon which the classification was based.  
2. If a competent authority renders a final judgment or decision barring a 
contractor from dealing with ministries, government agencies, and public 
corporate entities for a period of two years or more. 
The contractor's classification shall be reconsidered if the judgment or decision 
is for less than two years.  
Article 19 
Ministries, government agencies, and public corporate entities shall provide the 
Ministry with the information, data, and observations it requests regarding 
contractors for purposes of classification, in accordance with a form prepared 
by the Ministry. 
Article 20 
Pursuant to a decision by the Minister, a committee shall be formed to review 
contractors'  grievances  against  classification  decisions  or  classification 
revocation. Said committee shall be composed of not less than three members, 
provided that one of them is a legal counsel. The committee's decisions shall 
pass by majority vote and shall be approved by the Minister.  
Article 21 
A  contractor  may  file  a  grievance  with  the  contractors'  grievances  review 
committee against a classification or classification revocation decision within 60 
days from the notification date of said decision.  
  6 

NEW PAGE

Contractors Classification Law 
 
 
 
Article 22 
A contractor may file a grievance with the Board of Grievances within 60 days 
from the date of his notification of the decision issued by the contractors' 
grievances review committee. 
Article 23 
The Minister shall issue the Implementing Regulations of this Law within 90 
days from the date of its publication in the Official Gazette.  
Article 24 
This Law shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall enter into force 90 
days from its publication date. 
Article 25 
This Law shall repeal the Contractors Classification Regulations issued by 
Council of Ministers' Resolution No. (892) dated 19/7/1395H and all provisions 
and decisions conflicting therewith. 
  7 

NEW PAGE
Government Tenders and Procurement Law 
 
Royal Decree No. M/128 
July 16, 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Translation of Saudi Laws 

NEW PAGE

Government Tenders and Procurement Law 
 
 
 
NOTE: 
The translation of Saudi laws takes the following into consideration: 
•  Words used in the singular form include the plural and vice versa.  
•  Words used in the masculine form include the feminine.  
•  Words used in the present tense include the present as well as the future.  
•  The word “person” or “persons” and their related pronouns (he, his, him, they, 
their, them) refer to a natural and legal person.  
 
   
  2 

NEW PAGE

Government Tenders and Procurement Law 
 
 
 
Government Tenders and Procurement Law 
Part 1: General Provisions 
Chapter 1: Definitions 
Article 1 
In this Law, the following terms shall have the meanings assigned thereto 
unless the context requires otherwise: 
Law: Government Tenders and Procurement Law. 
Regulations: Implementing Regulations of the Law. 
Minister: Minister of Finance. 
Ministry: Ministry of Finance. 
Authority: Local Content and Government Procurement Authority. 
Unified Procurement Agency:  The agency in charge of unified strategic 
procurement which is determined pursuant to a resolution by the Council of 
Ministers. 
Government  Agencies:  Ministries,  government  bodies,  public  agencies, 
authorities,  and  institutions,  and  other  entities  with  an  independent  public 
corporate personality. 
Head  of  Government  Agency:  Minister,  president,  governor,  or  principal 
officer of a government agency. 
Portal: The electronic portal designated for government procurements which is 
under the Ministry’s supervision. 
Framework Agreement: An agreement between one or more government 
agencies and one or more suppliers, contractors, or operators, that includes the 
terms and conditions of contracts awarded during a specific period. 
Electronic Reverse Auction: An electronic method which allows for bids to be 
submitted successively within a given period in order to select the lowest offer. 
Consultancy Services: Services of a professional or consultative nature, such 
as  accounting  and  legal  services,  which  include,  but  are  not  limited  to, 
conducting  research  and  studies,  and  developing  and  supervising  the 
implementation of specifications, schemes, and designs. 
Pre-Qualification: Measures taken by a government agency to ensure that a 
bidder, prior to submitting his proposal, is qualified to carry out the required 
works and procurements. 
Post-Qualification: Measures taken by a government agency, upon selecting 
the best proposal and prior to awarding the tender, to ensure that the selected 
bidder is qualified to carry out the required works and procurements. 
  3 

NEW PAGE

Government Tenders and Procurement Law 
 
 
 
Suspension Period: A period for deciding appeals submitted by bidders which 
starts from the date of notifying them of the winning proposal. 
Emergency: A state wherein the risk to public safety, security, or health is 
serious and unforeseen; involves an abrupt disorder that may cause loss of life 
or  property;  and  which  cannot  be  addressed  through  regular  tendering 
procedures. 
Urgency: A case where it is crucial for works and procurements to be carried 
out in a short period of time to ensure that government agencies operate 
efficiently. 
Chapter 2: Purposes of the Law 
Article 2 
This Law aims at: 
1. regulating procedures relating to works and procurements, and preventing 
abuse of power and conflict of interest to protect public funds; 
2. achieving optimal value of public funds when concluding contracts of works 
and procurements, and implementing them at fair and competitive prices; 
3. promoting integrity and competitiveness, maintaining equality, and ensuring 
fair treatment of bidders, in fulfillment of the principle of equal opportunity; 
4. maintaining  transparency  in  all  procedures  related  to  works  and 
procurements; and 
5. fostering economic growth and development. 
Chapter 3: Basic Principles 
Article 3 
1. Government agencies shall, in carrying out their works and procurements, 
only contract licensed persons, subject to applicable laws and regulations. 
2. Government agencies shall, before contracting foreign persons to carry out 
procurements or works inside the Kingdom, ensure the unavailability of more 
than one local person qualified to carry out said works or procurements. The 
Regulations shall specify the terms and conditions for implementing the 
provisions of this paragraph. 
Article 4 
All qualified persons seeking to contract with a government agency shall be 
accorded equal opportunities and treatment. 
  4 

NEW PAGE

Government Tenders and Procurement Law 
 
 
 
Article 5 
Bidders shall be provided with clear and uniform information on the required 
works and procurements and shall be given access to such information at a 
specified time. 
Article 6 
A public tender shall be subject to the principles of publicity, transparency, and 
equal opportunity. 
Article 7 
No proposals or contracts shall be accepted or concluded unless they are 
compliant with the provisions of the Law. 
Article 8 
The tendering and contracting of works and procurements shall be restricted to 
the actual needs of the government agency and shall be at fair prices that do 
not exceed prevailing market prices. 
Article 9 
Priority shall be given to local small- and medium-sized enterprises, local 
content, and companies listed in the Capital Market. The regulations referred 
to in Article 96(3) of this Law shall determine the manner of prioritization. 
Chapter 4: Scope of Application 
Article 10 
This Law shall apply to all government agencies. 
Article 11 
Works and procurements carried out outside the Kingdom shall be subject to 
the  provisions  of  the  Law.  However,  they  may  be  exempted  from  some 
provisions, as specified in the Regulations. 
Chapter 5: Advance Planning 
Article 12 
1. A government agency shall plan in advance its works and procurements, and 
coordinate with the Ministry for the allocation of necessary appropriations. At 
the beginning of each fiscal year, the agency shall publish a plan consistent 
  5 

NEW PAGE

Government Tenders and Procurement Law 
 
 
 
with  its  budget  which  includes  key  information  about  its  works  and 
procurements  for  the  year,  without  compromising  the  confidentiality 
considerations of national security. 
2. The government agency’s publication of its plans of works and procurements 
shall not result in any obligation.  
Chapter 6: Institutional Organization 
Article 13 
1. In implementing the provisions of the Law, the Ministry shall: 
a) create, oversee, and continuously develop the Portal; 
b) set policies and issue directives, instructions, and guidelines related to the 
implementation of the provisions of the Law and its Regulations; 
c) collect tender-related information and publish it on the Portal, and monitor 
the application of the provisions of the Law, without prejudice to the 
jurisdiction of other monitoring agencies; and 
d) publish on the Portal lists of persons whom dealing with is prohibited. 
2. The  Minister  shall  approve  tender  document  forms,  pre-qualification 
documents, contract forms, contractor performance assessment forms, and 
any other document required by the nature of the works or procurements. 
Article 14 
Without  prejudice  to  the  jurisdiction  of  the  General  Authority  for  Military 
Industries, and in the implementation of the provisions of the Law, the Unified 
Procurement Agency shall be in charge of the following: 
1. Identifying  the  works  and  procurements  needed  by  more  than  one 
government agency; unifying their technical specifications; carrying out their 
tendering procedures; receiving, reviewing, and selecting the best proposal; 
and concluding framework agreements on behalf of government agencies, 
in accordance with the provisions of the Law. 
2. Preparing lists of works and procurements for which framework agreements 
have been concluded, and granting government agencies access to such 
lists and the terms of framework agreements through the Portal. 
3. Reviewing  feasibility  studies  and  cost  estimates  submitted  thereto  by 
government agencies in relation to procurements and works tendered by 
said agencies, as well as relevant tender documents and pre-qualification 
documents, if any, and issuing an opinion thereon within the period specified 
by the Regulations. 
4. Developing  forms  for  tender  documents,  pre-qualification  documents, 
contracts, contractor performance assessment, and any other document 
required by the nature of works or procurements, in accordance with the 
  6 

NEW PAGE

Government Tenders and Procurement Law 
 
 
 
provisions of the Law and its Regulations, and the regulations referred to in 
Article 96 of this Law. 
5. Preparing the training programs necessary for developing the qualifications 
and skills of persons entrusted with the application of the Law at government 
agencies. 
Article 15 
1. A government agency shall not carry out procurements or works in the lists 
prepared by the Unified Procurement Agency except through framework 
agreements concluded by the Agency. 
2. Notwithstanding paragraph (1) of this Article, a government agency may, 
upon  obtaining  the  approval  of  the  Agency,  carry  out  works  and 
procurements included in the lists, in accordance with the provisions of the 
Law. 
3. A government agency shall, before holding tenders for works or projects or 
proceeding with pre-qualification, if any, submit the feasibility study, cost 
estimate, tender documents, and pre-qualification documents, if any, as well 
as reports on any action taken, to the Unified Procurement Agency for review 
within the period specified in the Regulations. If the Unified Procurement 
Agency fails to respond within said period, it shall be deemed to have granted 
its approval. The government agency shall comply with any modification 
required by the Unified Procurement Agency.  
4. Notwithstanding paragraph (3) of this Article, a government agency may hold 
tenders for projects or works or proceed with pre-qualification, if any, without 
submitting the feasibility study, cost estimate, tender documents, and pre-
qualification documents, if any, as well as reports on any action taken, to the 
Unified Procurement Agency, in cases where the estimated cost of the works 
and procurements does not exceed the amount specified in the Regulations, 
or in cases of emergency or urgency; in which case, a notification to the 
Unified Procurement Agency of the action taken shall suffice.  
Chapter 7: The Portal 
Article 16 
Government tenders and procurements shall be published through the Portal, 
unless it is infeasible for technical reasons or reasons relating to national 
security, as specified by the Regulations. 
Article 17 
1. The Portal shall ensure the highest degree of privacy, confidentiality, safety, 
and transparency of information, and it shall ensure integrity of procedures. 
2. The  Portal  shall  make  available  to  interested  parties  tender-related 
  7 

NEW PAGE

Government Tenders and Procurement Law 
 
 
 
information and data as specified by the Regulations. 
3. The Portal shall maintain a record for each government agency, which 
includes information, data, and procedures relating to concluded contracts, 
as well as tendered projects and works, as specified by the Regulations. 
4. The Ministry shall charge a fee for the services rendered through the Portal. 
The Council of Ministers shall determine the amount of the fee and may 
amend it upon the Ministry’s recommendation. 
Chapter 8: Eligibility and Qualification of Bidders  
Article 18 
Prospective bidders shall meet the requirements necessary for carrying out 
government works and procurements, as specified by the Regulations. 
Article 19 
1. A government agency shall carry out pre- or post-qualification for its works 
and procurements in accordance with the Regulations. 
2. If pre-qualification is conducted, the invitation to tender shall be limited to 
those who have passed the pre-qualification phase. 
Article 20 
Pre- or post-qualification criteria shall be objective and measurable, and shall 
be inclusive of the bidders’ technical, financial, and administrative capabilities 
as well as the amount of their contractual obligations, in a manner that is 
commensurate with the nature, size, and value of the project or work. 
Chapter 9: Tender Documents 
Article 21 
1. Tender documents shall include information and data relating to works and 
procurements offered for tender, as specified by the Regulations. 
2. Tender documents shall be made available on the Portal. If technically 
infeasible, a sufficient number of hard-copies shall be made available. 
3. The Regulations shall set the criteria for determining the cost of tender 
documents. 
  8 

NEW PAGE

Government Tenders and Procurement Law 
 
 
 
Chapter 10: Conditions and Specifications 
Article 22 
1. The  conditions  and  technical  specifications  of  works  and  procurements 
offered for tender shall be detailed, accurate, and clear, and shall observe 
national standard specifications, or international standard specifications in 
the  absence  of  national  standard  specifications.  Such  conditions  and 
specifications shall not include reference to a specific type or brand, nor to a 
specific trademark or trade name, nor should they set specifications that 
apply only to specific contractors, producers, or suppliers. 
2. Notwithstanding paragraph (1) of this Article, reference may be made to a 
specific  trademark  or  trade  name  in  cases  where  it  is  not  possible  to 
accurately describe and specify technical specifications, provided that the 
approval of the Unified Procurement Agency is obtained, and the phrase or 
its equivalent is included in the tender documents. 
3. A government agency shall not require exaggerated technical specifications, 
nor shall such specifications exceed the actual needs of the project and 
allocated appropriations. 
4. In  setting  technical  specifications,  a  government  agency  may  seek  the 
assistance of experts and specialists. 
5. In setting technical specifications, a government agency shall take into 
consideration the needs of persons with disabilities. 
Chapter 11: Estimated Costs  
Article 23 
Prior to estimating the cost of works and procurements, a government agency 
shall: 
1. thoroughly  study  market  prices  and  take  them  into  consideration  when 
setting a maximum limit for the expected total contract value; and 
2. set measures necessary to maintain the confidentiality of the estimated cost. 
Chapter 12: Proposal Assessment Criteria 
Article 24 
A government agency shall include in tender documents the criteria for the 
assessment, comparison, and acceptance of proposals, in accordance with the 
Regulations. 
  9 

NEW PAGE

Government Tenders and Procurement Law 
 
 
 
Article 25 
Non-price assessment criteria shall be objective, commensurate with the nature 
of works or procurements offered for tender, and quantifiable to the extent 
possible. 
Chapter 13: Tender Divisibility 
Article 26 
Works and procurements shall not be divided in order to make them eligible for 
direct purchase or limited tendering, or to fall within the powers of authorized 
officials. 
Chapter 14: Joint Bidding 
Article 27 
Proposals submitted jointly may be accepted in accordance with the provisions 
of the Regulations. 
Part 2: Manner of Contracting  
Chapter 1: Public Tender 
Article 28 
All works and procurements shall be offered for public tender, except for those 
exempted under the Law. 
Article 29 
1. Public tenders shall be announced through the Portal in accordance with the 
Regulations. 
2. The Regulations shall specify the medium for announcing a public tender if 
announcement on the Portal is technically infeasible. 
  10 

NEW PAGE

Government Tenders and Procurement Law 
 
 
 
Chapter 2: Limited Tender 
Article 30 
A government agency may adopt the limited-tender contracting method in the 
following cases: 
1. If the works and procurements are only provided by a limited number of 
contractors, suppliers, or operators. 
2. If the estimated value of works and procurements does not exceed 500,000 
riyals. This shall require inviting as many bidders as possible provided that 
the number of bidders is not less than five. Priority shall be given to local 
small- and medium-sized enterprises. 
3. Urgent cases. 
4. If  the  works  and  procurements  can  be  provided  by  non-governmental 
organizations or societies, or non-profit entities, provided that they execute 
the contract themselves. 
5. Consulting services. 
The Regulations shall specify the rules and procedures for implementing this 
Article. 
Chapter 3: Two-Stage Tender 
Article 31 
A government agency may offer a tender over two stages if it is not possible to 
determine the final technical specifications and contractual obligations fully and 
accurately due to the complex and specialized nature of some works and 
procurements, as specified by the Regulations. 
Chapter 4: Direct Purchase 
Article 32 
A government agency may adopt the direct-purchase contracting method in the 
following cases: 
1. Procurement of weapons and military equipment, and spare parts thereof, 
shall be carried out by the General Authority for Military Industries. 
2. If works and procurements are exclusively provided by a sole operator, 
contractor, or supplier, where no acceptable alternative is available, provided 
that contracting is carried out in accordance with the Regulations. 
3. If  the estimated cost of  the works and procurements does not exceed 
  11 

NEW PAGE

Government Tenders and Procurement Law 
 
 
 
100,000 riyals; in such case, the priority of invitation shall be given to local 
small- and medium-sized enterprises. 
4. If adopting such method is necessary for the protection of national security 
interests, where public or limited tenders are precluded. In such case, a 
government agency shall, after concluding the contract, prepare a report 
stating the reasons for adopting such method, and it shall provide a copy 
thereof to the General Auditing Bureau. 
5. If  the  works  and  procurements  are  only  provided  by  a  single  non-
governmental organization or society, or a single non-profit entity, provided 
that it executes the contract itself. 
6. Emergencies. 
Without prejudice to the powers of the General Authority for Military Industries 
stipulated in paragraph (1) of this Article, the Regulations shall specify rules 
and procedures for the implementation of the provisions of this Article. 
Chapter 5: Framework Agreement 
Article 33 
A government agency may conclude a framework agreement with the winning 
bidder, stating the terms for executing the contract, in cases where it is not 
feasible to determine the quantity for each type or volume of works or services, 
or the subject of the contract, or determine their execution date, as specified in 
the Regulations. 
Chapter 6: Electronic Reverse Auction 
Article 34 
A government agency may adopt the electronic reverse auction in accordance 
with the Regulations, taking the following into consideration: 
1. Detailed technical specifications are prepared. 
2. A competitive market is available to ensure effective competition. 
3. Proposals are received through the Portal and are automatically put in order. 
4. The auction’s commencement and end dates are specified.  
5. Bidders are provided with the necessary information and guidelines for using 
the Portal.  
  12 

NEW PAGE

Government Tenders and Procurement Law 
 
 
 
Chapter 7: Transfer of Industry and Know-How  
Article 35 
The Authority may, at its own initiative or upon the request of a government 
agency, subject to the Ministry’s approval, conclude contracts for the transfer 
of  industry  and  know-how,  in  accordance  with  the  rules  specified  by  the 
Regulations. 
Chapter 8: Competition 
Article 36 
A government agency may, by way of competition, conclude a contract with the 
bidder presenting the best idea, design, or any other intellectual property rights, 
as specified in the Regulations.  
Part 3: Proposals and Awards 
Chapter 1: Submission of Proposals  
Article 37 
1. Proposals submitted through the Portal shall be encrypted, as specified by 
the Regulations. 
2. Proposals shall be submitted on designated dates; otherwise, they shall not 
be accepted. 
3. Proposals may be submitted in sealed envelopes if their submission through 
the Portal is not feasible for technical reasons. 
4. A government agency shall announce the names of bidders through the 
Portal; if technically infeasible, the names shall be announced through any 
other medium specified by the Regulations. 
Article 38 
A government agency may require that a sample of the items to be procured 
be attached with the proposal. 
Article 39 
1. A proposal shall be valid for a period of 90 days from the date set for proposal 
opening. If a proposal is withdrawn within said period, the initial financial 
guarantee shall not be returned. 
  13 

NEW PAGE

Government Tenders and Procurement Law 
 
 
 
2. A government agency may extend the proposals’ validity period for another 
90 days. Bidders willing to proceed with the tender shall extend the validity 
period of their initial guarantees. 
Article 40 
1. Total prices and any subsequent increases or reductions thereof shall be 
stated in the proposal letter. No reduction submitted by means of a separate 
letter shall be considered, even if enclosed with the proposal. 
2. Bidders may not, except in cases where negotiation is allowed under the 
provisions of the Law, amend the prices included in their proposals after 
submission. 
Chapter 2: Initial Guarantee 
Article 41 
1. A bidder shall submit, along with the proposal, an initial guarantee of 1% to 
2% of the value of the proposal. Any proposal submitted without such 
guarantee shall be disqualified. 
2. The Regulations shall specify the provisions relating to the initial guarantee. 
Article 42 
Notwithstanding Article 41 of this Law, an initial guarantee shall not be required 
in the following cases: 
1. Direct purchase. 
2. Competition. 
3. Intra-governmental contracts. 
4. Contracting with a non-governmental organization or society, or a non-profit 
entity. 
5. Contracting with local small- and medium-sized enterprises. 
Chapter 3: Opening of Proposals  
Article 43 
Pursuant to a decision by the head of the government agency, or his designee, 
one or more committees shall be formed for the opening of proposals, as 
specified by the Regulations. 
  14 

NEW PAGE

Government Tenders and Procurement Law 
 
 
 
Article 44 
1. At the end of the proposal submission period, proposals shall be opened in 
the presence of all committee members, and minutes to this effect shall be 
made. In cases where technical proposals are required to be submitted 
separately from financial ones, only the technical proposals shall be opened. 
The Regulations shall specify proposal opening procedures. 
2. Bidders may attend proposal opening sessions. 
3. The committee shall, within three days from the proposal opening date, 
forward  the  minutes  along  with  the  proposals  to  the  proposal  review 
committee. 
Chapter 4: Review of Proposals and Power to Contract 
Article 45 
1. Pursuant  to  a  decision  by  the head of  the  government  agency,  or  his 
designee, one or more committees shall be formed for reviewing proposals 
in the manner prescribed by the Regulations. Said committee shall review 
the proposals and submit recommendations as to the best proposal, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Law. To this end, such committees 
may  draw  on  reports  from  technical  experts  when  preparing  their 
recommendations. 
2. The Unified Procurement Agency may participate in the meetings of the 
proposal review committee, and it shall have the same powers as other 
committee members. 
3. The proposal review committee shall issue its recommendations and record 
them in the minutes, along with any dissenting opinion, if any, and grounds 
therefor, as well as all actions made and procedures taken. The minutes shall 
be submitted to the person with the authority to decide on tender awarding, 
in accordance with the provisions of the Law. 
4. A person shall not simultaneously chair the proposal review committee and 
have the authority to decide on tender awarding; chair the proposal opening 
committee and the proposal review committee; nor hold membership in both 
committees. 
Article 46 
1. Proposals shall be reviewed pursuant to the criteria specified in the tender 
documents. Proposals not satisfying such criteria shall be disqualified, and 
the initial guarantees thereof shall be returned. 
2. If proposals are submitted in two separate electronic files or in two sealed 
envelopes,  only  the  technical  proposal  shall  be  reviewed.  Technical 
proposals that do not meet the requirements shall be disqualified; in such 
case, the financial proposals shall be returned intact to the bidders along with 
  15 

NEW PAGE

Government Tenders and Procurement Law 
 
 
 
the initial guarantees. 
3. The  proposal  review  committee  shall  examine  the  financial  proposals 
submitted  with  the  accepted  technical  proposals  and  submit  its 
recommendations  as  to  the  best  proposal,  in  accordance  with  the 
assessment criteria set out in the tender documents. 
Article 47 
The proposal review committee may negotiate with the bidder of the best 
proposal, and then with the next best bidders, in the following cases:  
1. If the price of the best proposal is significantly higher than market prices, the 
committee shall specify the amount of reduction that would make the bidder’s 
price consistent with market prices, and it shall send a written request for 
reduction. If the bidder declines or fails to reduce the price to the specified 
amount, the committee shall negotiate with the next best bidder, and so forth, 
until the target price is reached. If such price is not reached, the tender shall 
be canceled. 
2. If the price of the best proposal exceeds the appropriations for the project, 
the committee shall send the bidder a written request to provide a reduction 
that makes the price fall within the appropriations. If the bidder declines or 
fails to reduce the price to the specified amount, the committee shall proceed 
to negotiate with the next best bidder, and so forth, until reaching a price that 
falls within the project appropriations. If such price is not reached, the 
government agency may, upon approval of the Unified Procurement Agency, 
cancel or reduce some items to lower the price to the appropriated amount, 
provided that this does not affect the usability of the project or the order of 
proposals. If such cancellation or reduction of project items is not feasible, 
the tender shall be canceled. 
Article 48 
No  proposal  may  be  disqualified  on  grounds  of  underpricing  unless  the 
proposed price is less than the estimated cost or market price by 25% or more, 
provided that the proposal review committee, upon reviewing the estimated 
prices, discusses the issue with the bidder of the underpriced proposal, and 
sends the bidder a written request to provide more details about the items 
covered in the proposal, along with an explanation for the low price. If the 
Committee is not convinced of the bidder’s ability to execute the contract, it may 
recommend disqualification of the proposal. 
Article 49 
A government agency shall announce the tender results and notify the other 
bidders thereof, in accordance with the Regulations. 
Article 50 
1. If only one proposal is submitted, or multiple proposals are submitted but 
  16 

NEW PAGE

Government Tenders and Procurement Law 
 
 
 
only one satisfies the requirements of the tender, said proposal may only be 
accepted if the proposed price is similar to market prices, upon the approval 
of the head of the government agency. 
2. The Regulations shall specify the provisions to be applied in cases of equal 
proposals. 
Article 51 
A tender shall be cancelled in the following cases: 
1. If tender documents contain substantial errors that cannot be rectified. 
2. If an irreparable action that violates the provisions of the Law or Regulations 
is taken.  
3. If there are clear indications of fraud, corruption, or collusion between bidders 
or any parties related to the tender in a manner that precludes awarding the 
tender in accordance with the provisions of the Law and Regulations. 
4. If all proposals violate the tender requirements. 
5. If public interest so requires. 
Article 52 
If  the  tender  is  canceled,  the  fees  for  tender  documents  and  the  initial 
guarantees  shall  be  returned  to  the  bidders,  in  accordance  with  the 
Regulations. 
Chapter 5: Suspension Period 
Article 53 
Upon  the  issuance  and  announcement  of  the  awarding  decision,  the 
government agency shall observe a suspension period of not less than five 
working days and not more than 10 working days, during which the award may 
not be approved and the contract may not be signed, in order to allow bidders 
to appeal the awarding decision. 
Chapter 6: Powers 
Article 54 
1. The head of a government agency shall have the power to decide on tenders 
for carrying out works and procurements and to assign additional works; he 
may delegate such power in the following cases: 
a) Deciding on tenders for carrying out works and procurements of a value 
not exceeding 10,000,000 riyals.  
  17 

NEW PAGE

Government Tenders and Procurement Law 
 
 
 
b) Assigning additional works of a value not exceeding 5,000,000 riyals per 
project or 10% of the project cost, whichever is lower. 
2. The head of a government agency shall have the power to cancel a tender 
and he may delegate such power. 
3. The  head  of  a  government  agency  shall  have  the  power  to  terminate 
contracts and he may delegate such power. 
4. The head of a government agency shall have the power to decide on direct 
purchases and he may delegate such power in cases where the purchase 
value does not exceed 3,000,000 riyals. 
5. The head of a government agency shall have the power to award tenders for 
the sale of movables and he may delegate such power. 
6. The delegation of powers shall follow the chain of command. 
Part 4: Concluding and Executing Contracts 
Chapter 1: Contract Drafting and Execution Terms 
Article 55 
1. Contracts and their annexes as well as related documents shall be drafted 
in Arabic. Another language may be used in addition to Arabic provided that 
Arabic  is  the  language  used  for  contract  interpretation  and  execution, 
determination  of  its  specifications  and  schemes,  and  related 
correspondence. 
2. Where the contract value does not exceed 300,000 riyals, a government 
agency’s  correspondence  with  the  contractor  shall  suffice  in  lieu  of  a 
contract. 
Article 56 
1. The term of continuing service contracts, such as maintenance, operation, 
cleaning, and catering contracts, shall not exceed five years, and the term 
may be extended in certain contracts, upon the Ministry’s approval. 
2. In all contracts, the period of execution shall be proportionate to the size and 
nature of the works and to the annual appropriations of the project. 
3. A continuing service contract shall contain terms and conditions concerning 
level  of  performance  and  ongoing  evaluation  to  allow  the  government 
agency, in cases of unsatisfactory performance, to terminate the contract or 
reduce payments. The Regulations shall determine the procedures required 
to implement the provisions of this Article. 
  18 

NEW PAGE

Government Tenders and Procurement Law 
 
 
 
Article 57 
The  Regulations  shall  determine  the  types  of  contracts  that  government 
agencies may use. 
Article 58 
Contracts may contain provisions concerning the transfer of know-how training, 
and operational skills to government agency employees. 
Article 59 
1. A  contract  shall  be  concluded  between  a  government  agency  and  the 
winning bidder after the bidder is notified of the awarding decision and 
submits the final letter of guarantee. 
2. In public construction contracts, a contractor shall be allowed to commence 
execution of the contract within 60 days from the date of being notified of the 
awarding decision, unless otherwise stipulated in the tender documents. 
Article 60 
1. Prior to concluding any of the contracts specified by the Regulations, a 
government agency shall submit said contracts to the Ministry for review. 
The Ministry shall review the contracts within 15 working days from the date 
of receipt thereof. If the Ministry does not respond within said period, the 
contracts shall be deemed approved. This Article shall not apply to agencies 
with no appropriations in the General State Budget. 
2. The Regulations shall specify the rules for the application of this Article. 
Chapter 2: Final Guarantee 
Article 61 
1. The awarded bidder shall submit a final guarantee of 5% of the contract value 
within a period of 15 working days from the date of being notified of the 
awarding decision. The government agency may extend such period for a 
similar period. If the final guarantee is not submitted during the specified 
period, the initial guarantee shall not be returned to the bidder, and the 
government agency shall proceed to negotiate with the next best bidder, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Law. The guarantee percentage may 
be increased upon the Minister’s approval. 
2. A local small- or medium-sized bidder shall pay to the government agency a 
fine equal to the initial guarantee if the bidder withdraws the proposal during 
the bidding validity period, or if the bidder fails to submit the final guarantee 
upon being awarded the tender. If the bidder fails to pay the specified fine 
within 60 days from the date of withdrawing the proposal or from the deadline 
for  submitting  the  final  guarantee,  the  bidder  shall  be  banned  from 
  19 

NEW PAGE

Government Tenders and Procurement Law 
 
 
 
contracting with government agencies for one year. 
3. A final guarantee shall not be required in the following cases: 
a) If the value of the works and procurements does not exceed 100,000 
riyals. 
b) Intra-government contracts. 
c) Contracting with a non-governmental organization or society, or any other 
non-profit entity. 
d) Contracting with a company the State owns at least 51% of its capital. 
e) If the contractor delivers all the items covered by the tender awarded 
thereto and the government agency makes a final acceptance thereof 
within the period specified for submission of the final guarantee; or if the 
contractor delivers part of the items and that part is accepted, and its price 
is sufficient to cover the final guarantee; in which case, an amount equal 
to  the  guarantee  shall  be  retained  until  the  contractor  fulfills  the 
contractual obligations. 
f)  If the contractor is assigned additional works.  
4. A final guarantee shall be retained until the contractor fulfills the contractual 
obligations and makes a final delivery of the project, in accordance with the 
contract terms and conditions. 
Article 62 
In  contracts  of  continuing  services,  the  final  guarantee  shall  be  reduced 
annually in proportion to the work completed, provided that such guarantee is 
not less than 5% of the value of the remaining work. 
Article 63 
Guarantees shall be accepted in any of the following forms: 
1. A letter of guarantee from a local bank. 
2. A letter of guarantee from a bank outside the Kingdom, submitted through a 
local bank. 
3. Any other form prescribed by the Regulations. 
The Regulations shall specify the guarantees’ terms, conditions, and templates. 
Chapter 3: Payments 
Article 64 
The value of contracts shall be paid in Saudi riyals. A government agency may 
designate other currencies in the tender documents, subject to the Ministry’s 
prior approval. 
  20 

NEW PAGE

Government Tenders and Procurement Law 
 
 
 
Article 65 
The total value of a contract shall be inclusive of all expenses incurred in the 
execution thereof, in accordance with its terms and conditions, including fees 
and taxes paid by the contractor. No exemption shall be allowed, nor shall a 
contractor’s profit or the income of the contractor’s employees be exempted 
from tax, nor shall it be paid on their behalf, except as exempted by law. 
Article 66 
A government agency may make an advance payment to the contractor in 
return for a bank guarantee of an equal value, as specified by the Regulations. 
Article 67 
A contractor's entitlements shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of 
the Regulations. 
Chapter 4: Price Adjustment and Change Orders 
Article 68 
Prices of contracts or framework agreements shall not be changed, either by 
increasing or decreasing them, except in the following cases: 
1. Changes in the prices of main items or services covered by the tender, as 
specified by the Regulations. 
2. Adjustment of tariffs, fees, or taxes. 
3. If, in the course of contract execution, unforeseen financial difficulties arise. 
The Regulations shall determine the conditions and procedures necessary for 
the implementation of the provisions of this Article. 
Article 69 
A government agency may, in accordance with its actual needs, issue change 
orders to increase the contract value by no more than 10%, or decrease such 
value by no more than 20%, in accordance with the Regulations. 
Chapter 5: Contract Assignment and Subcontracting 
Article 70 
A contractor may not assign the contract, or part thereof, to another contractor, 
operator, or supplier without obtaining the written approval of the government 
agency and the Ministry. The Regulations shall specify the terms and conditions 
for the assignment of a contract or part thereof. 
  21 

NEW PAGE

Government Tenders and Procurement Law 
 
 
 
Article 71 
1. A contractor may not subcontract another contractor, operator, or supplier 
without  obtaining  the  written  approval  of  the  government  agency.  The 
Regulations shall specify the terms and conditions for subcontracting. 
2. A government agency may directly pay a subcontracted contractor, operator, 
or supplier. The Regulations shall set relevant terms and conditions. 
3. In all circumstances, a contractor shall be jointly liable with the subcontracted 
contractor,  operator,  or  supplier,  for  the  execution  of  the  contract  in 
accordance with its terms and conditions. 
Chapter 6: Fines and Extension of Contracts  
Article 72 
A contractor who fails to execute a contract by the set date shall be subject to 
a fine not exceeding 6% of the value of a supply contract or 20% of the value 
of other contracts. Said percentages may be increased upon the Minister’s prior 
approval, provided that bidders are notified of such increases prior to submitting 
their proposals. 
Article 73 
A contractor who fails to fulfill the contractual obligations in continuing service 
contracts shall be subject to a fine not exceeding 20% of the value of the 
contract,  in  addition  to  deducting  the  value  of  non-executed  works.  Said 
percentage may be increased upon the Minister’s prior approval, provided that 
bidders are notified of such increase prior to submitting their proposals. 
Article 74 
Contracts may be extended and fines may be waived in the following cases: 
1. If the contractor is assigned additional work. In such case, the extension 
period shall take into consideration the volume and nature of such work and 
the date of assignment. 
2. If the project’s annual appropriations are insufficient to complete the work 
within the specified time. 
3. If  the  delay  is  attributable  to  the  government  agency  or  to  exigent 
circumstances. 
4. If the delay is attributable to reasons beyond the contractor’s control. 
5. If the government agency orders suspension of the work, or part thereof, for 
reasons not attributable to the contractor. 
The Regulations shall set the controls and procedures for contract extension 
and fine waiver. 
  22 

NEW PAGE

Government Tenders and Procurement Law 
 
 
 
Chapter 7: Partial Withdrawal and Execution at the Contractor’s Expense 
Article 75 
A government agency may withdraw part of the works or procurements and 
have such part executed at the contractor’s expense if the contractor fails to 
fulfill the contractual obligations after being warned. The Regulations shall 
specify the requirements for the implementation of this Article. 
Chapter 8: Termination of Contracts 
Article 76 
1. A government agency must terminate a contract in the following cases: 
a) If it is established that the contractor has, personally or through others, 
directly or indirectly, bribed an employee of the agencies subject to the 
Law; obtained the contract  through bribery, fraud, deceit, forgery, or 
manipulation; or engaged in any such acts in the course of executing the 
contract. 
b) If  the  contractor  becomes  bankrupt,  files  for  bankruptcy,  is  proven 
insolvent, or is placed under receivership, or if the contractor is a company 
which has been dissolved or liquidated. 
c) If the contractor assigns the contract without the written approval of the 
government agency and the Ministry. 
2. A government agency may terminate the contract in the following cases: 
a) If  the  contractor  delays  commencement  of  work,  procrastinates  in 
executing  the  contract,  or  violates  any  of  the  contract’s  terms  and 
conditions, and the contractor fails to rectify the situation within 15 days 
from the date of receiving a written notification. 
b) If  the  contractor  dies,  the  contract  shall  be  terminated,  entitlements 
settled, and guarantees returned. The government agency may continue 
contracting with the heirs of the deceased upon their approval, provided 
they have the technical qualifications and the guarantees necessary to 
execute the contract. 
c) If  the  contractor  subcontracts  another  contractor  without  the  written 
approval of the government agency. 
3. Upon terminating a contract, a tender may be held for the remaining part 
through the same tendering process. The government agency may hold a 
limited tender and invite bidders with the next best bids to submit new 
proposals which shall be assessed in accordance with the provisions of the 
Law. 
4. The  Regulations  shall  set  the  conditions  and  procedures  for  the 
implementation of the provisions of this Article. 
  23 

NEW PAGE

Government Tenders and Procurement Law 
 
 
 
Article 77 
A government agency may terminate a contract if public interest so requires, or 
if termination is agreed upon with the contractor, upon the Ministry’s approval, 
in accordance with the terms and conditions set in the Regulations. 
Article 78 
Upon terminating a contract pursuant to Articles 76(1), (2/a), or (2/c) of this Law, 
the final guarantee shall be confiscated, without prejudice to the government 
agency’s right of recourse against the contractor to claim compensation for the 
damage incurred. The committee set forth in Article 88 of this Law shall be 
provided with a copy of the termination decision in order to consider barring 
said contractor from government contracts. 
Chapter 9: Contractor Performance Assessment 
Article 79 
A  government  agency  shall,  upon  completion  of  the  contract,  assess  the 
contractor's performance using the contractor performance assessment form. 
The results of the contractor performance assessment shall not be announced 
until the assessment decision becomes final. The Regulations shall determine 
the required rules and procedures for implementation thereof, and any action 
to be taken in case of poor performance. 
Part 5: Sale of Movables 
Article 80 
A government agency may assign redundant movables to other agencies and 
their affiliated entities, provided it notifies the Ministry thereof. The agency 
owning the movables shall inform other agencies through the Portal of the 
movable items and  their quantities and designate a period for expressing 
interest in them. If no agency expresses interest within the designated period, 
the movables may be sold by way of public auction if their estimated value 
amounts to or exceeds 200,000 riyals, after announcement on the Portal and 
the agency’s website, in accordance with public tender announcement rules. 
Article 81 
Movables whose estimated value is less than 200,000 riyals shall be sold either 
at public auction or in any other manner the government agency deems to be 
in the best interest of the State Treasury, provided that said agency allows the 
participation of as many bidders as possible. 
  24 

NEW PAGE

Government Tenders and Procurement Law 
 
 
 
Article 82 
1. In sealed-bid auctions, a bidder shall submit, along with the proposal, an 
initial guarantee amounting to 2% of the proposal value. 
2. The awarded bidder shall, within 15 working days from the awarding date, 
raise the guarantee to 5% of the proposal value. If the bidder fails to do so, 
the initial guarantee shall not be returned. Such guarantee shall not be 
released until the value of purchased movables and transportation costs are 
paid in full. The guarantees shall be returned to unsuccessful bidders. 
3. In public auctions, the awarded bidder shall submit a guarantee amounting 
to 5% of its value. A cashier's check or cash may be accepted as a guarantee 
in such auctions. 
Article 83 
If no proposal is submitted for an announced auction, another announcement 
shall be made. If no proposal is submitted after the second announcement, the 
authorized person may offer the sale of such items to relevant dealers. If no fair 
price  is  offered,  such  movables  may  be  donated  to  non-governmental 
associations and societies, or to any non-profit entity, provided the Ministry is 
notified thereof. 
Article 84 
The Regulations shall specify auction procedures and the formation of sale 
committees. 
Article 85 
A  government  agency  may  secure  some  of  its  needs  by  leasing  or  by 
exchanging its movables for new ones, in accordance with the Regulations. 
Part 6: Review of Complaints, Violations, and Appeals 
Article 86 
1. Pursuant to a decision by the Minister, one or more committees shall be 
formed for a term of three years, each composed of at least five specialists. 
Said decision shall designate the committee chairman and deputy and shall 
name one or more substitute members. Membership of such committees 
may be renewed. A decision issued by the Minister shall specify committee 
work procedures and determine remunerations of committee members and 
secretary. 
2. The committee shall consider the following: 
a) Appeals filed by bidders against the awarding decision or any decision or 
action taken by the government agency prior to the awarding decision. 
  25 

NEW PAGE

Government Tenders and Procurement Law 
 
 
 
b) Appeals filed by contractors against performance assessment decisions. 
c) Price adjustment requests, in accordance with Article 68 of this Law. 
3. Committee decisions shall be binding to government agencies. 
4. An appellant shall submit a guarantee, equal to half the amount of the initial 
guarantee. Such guarantee shall be returned if the appeal is successful. 
Article 87 
1. A bidder may file an appeal with the government agency against any decision 
it takes prior to the awarding decision within five working days from the 
decision  issuance  date.  The  bidder  may  also  file  an  appeal  with  the 
government agency against the awarding decision within the suspension 
period referred to in Article 53 of this Law. 
2. The government agency shall decide on the appeal within 15 working days 
from the date of filing. An appeal not decided on during said period shall be 
deemed denied. 
3. An appellant may, within three days from the date of being notified of the 
denial of the appeal or from the lapse of the period referred to in paragraph 
(2) of this Article without a decision on the appeal, file an appeal with the 
committee provided for in Article 86 of this Law. 
4. The committee referred to in Article 86 of this Law shall decide on filed 
appeals and shall notify the concerned parties of its decision within 15 
working days from the date of filing. The committee may extend such period 
for a similar period. 
5. A government agency shall not proceed with contracting without observing 
the following: 
a) The lapse of the suspension period without receiving any appeal. 
b) If an appeal is received and accepted, any action taken by the government 
agency which  violates  the  provisions  of  the Law  shall be  rectified  if 
possible; otherwise, the tender shall be canceled. If rectification results in 
another bidder winning the tender, only the disqualified bidder may appeal 
the disqualification decision before the government agency and shall do 
so within a period equal to the suspension period. Such appeal shall be 
subject to the provisions of this Article. 
c) If an appeal is received and denied, and the period specified in paragraph 
(4) of this Article lapses without the committee deciding on the appeal. 
Article 88 
1. Pursuant to a decision by the Minister, one or more committees shall be 
formed for a term of three years, each composed of at least five specialists. 
Said decision shall designate the committee chairman and deputy and shall 
name one or more substitute members. Membership of such committees 
may be renewed. A decision issued by the Minister shall specify committee 
work procedures and determine remunerations of committee members and 
  26 

NEW PAGE

Government Tenders and Procurement Law 
 
 
 
secretary. 
2. The committee shall review the violations of bidders and contractors of the 
provisions of the Law and concluded contracts. 
3. Without prejudice to any penalty provided for in any other law, the committee 
may issue a decision banning a violator from contracting with government 
agencies for a period not exceeding five years or lowering the violator’s 
classification, if any, or both. 
4. The committee may, instead of imposing the penalty of banning on a violator, 
impose a fine not exceeding 10% of the total value of the proposal. 
5. Committee decisions shall be effective from the date of issuance, unless the 
Administrative Court orders a stay of their execution. 
6. Committee  decisions  may  be appealed  before  the  Administrative  Court 
within 60 days from the date of notification thereof. 
7. A summary of the decision shall be published at the violator’s expense in a 
local newspaper or any other appropriate medium, in the following two cases: 
a) If the period specified in paragraph (6) of this Article lapses without the 
person concerned filing an appeal with the Administrative Court.  
b) If  the  Administrative  Court  renders  a  final  judgment  upholding  the 
committee’s decision. 
Part 7: Concluding Provisions 
Article 89 
Government agencies may contract with one another through direct agreement, 
provided they execute the works or procurements themselves. They may act 
on behalf of one another in contracting procedures. 
Article 90 
A  contract  shall  be  directly  concluded  with  licensed  persons  with  no 
intermediaries. Distributors or agents authorized by original producers shall not 
be deemed intermediaries. 
Article 91 
A government agency shall use the approved forms  for contracts, tender 
documents, pre-qualification documents, contractor performance assessment, 
and any other documents required by the nature of the works or procurements. 
Article 92 
1. A government agency shall fulfill its contractual obligations. If it fails to do so, 
the contractor may file a claim for compensation with the Administrative 
  27 

NEW PAGE

Government Tenders and Procurement Law 
 
 
 
Court. 
2. A government agency may, following the Minister's approval, agree to resort 
to arbitration, in accordance with the Regulations. 
3. The Regulations shall specify other methods for settling disputes that may 
arise during the execution of contracts. 
Article 93 
Companies carrying out works and procurements on behalf of government 
agencies shall comply with the provisions of the Law. 
Article 94 
Any employee violating any provision of the Law shall be subject to disciplinary 
action, in accordance with the provisions of the Civil Service Disciplinary Law 
and Labor Law, and other criminal provisions applicable to employees and 
workers. A government agency shall have the right to initiate a civil lawsuit 
against the violator, if necessary. 
Article 95 
If there arises a need for excluding any of the provisions of the Law, a request 
to this effect shall be submitted to the President of the Council of Ministers to 
form a committee of not less than three members, including the Minister, the 
chairman of the Authority’s board of directors, and the head of the relevant 
government  agency  to  review  the  provisions  to  be  excluded  and  provide 
justifications therefor. The committee shall submit its findings to the President 
of the Council of Ministers for a decision. 
Article 96 
Subject to the stipulations of relevant laws, the Ministry shall draft the following: 
1. A regulation governing conflict of interest pertaining to the implementation of 
the provisions of the Law and Regulations. 
2. A regulation governing the code of conduct and ethics of persons in charge 
of implementing the provisions of the Law and Regulations. 
3. A regulation governing the prioritization of local content, local small- and 
medium-sized enterprises, and companies listed in the Saudi Capital Market 
for awarding works and procurements, in conjunction with the Authority, the 
General Authority for Small and Medium Enterprises, and the Capital Market 
Authority. Said regulation shall include the following: 
a) Methods for prioritizing local content, its calculation, and application to 
works and procurements, including deciding on a priority percentage in 
the  technical  and  financial  assessment  of  proposals,  or  requiring  a 
mandatory percentage of the total contract value for local content. 
b) A method for prioritizing local small- and medium-sized enterprises and 
companies listed in the Saudi Capital Market in works and procurements, 
  28 

NEW PAGE

Government Tenders and Procurement Law 
 
 
 
including deciding on a priority percentage in the assessment of proposals 
or a fixed price range, or requiring a percentage of the total contract value. 
c) Fines  imposed  on  contractors  who  fail  to  comply  with  local  content 
requirements.  
The Council of Ministers shall issue the regulations referred to in this Article 
within 120 days. Said regulations shall enter into force from the effective date 
of the Law. 
Article 97 
The Minister shall issue the Regulations within 120 days from the date of 
publication of the Law in the Official Gazette. The Regulations shall enter into 
force on the same date the Law enters into force. 
Article 98 
This Law shall supersede the Government Tenders and Procurement Law 
promulgated by Royal Decree No. (M/58) dated 4/9/1427H and shall repeal any 
provisions conflicting therewith. 
Article 99 
This Law shall enter into force 120 days from the date of its publication in the 
Official Gazette. 
  29 

NEW PAGE
Commercial Papers Law 
 
Royal Decree No. 37 
February 25, 1964 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Translation of Saudi Laws 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Papers Law 
 
 
 
NOTE: 
The translation of Saudi laws takes the following into consideration: 
•  Words used in the singular form include the plural and vice versa.  
•  Words used in the masculine form include the feminine.  
•  Words used in the present tense include the present as well as the future.  
•  The word “person” or “persons” and their related pronouns (he, his, him, they, 
their, them) refer to a natural and legal person.  
 
   
  2 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Papers Law 
 
 
 
Commercial Papers Law 
Part 1: Bill of Exchange 
Chapter 1: Issuing a Bill of Exchange 
Article 1  
A bill of exchange shall include the following particulars:  
a) The statement “bill of exchange” written in the body of the instrument and in 
the language in which it is issued. 
b) An unconditional order to pay a fixed amount of money. 
c) Name of the obligor (drawee). 
d) Maturity date. 
e) Place of payment. 
f)  Name of the payee, whether the bill is payable to bearer or to order; 
g) Date and place of issuance. 
h) Signature of the issuer (drawer). 
Article 2  
An instrument that does not include any of the particulars stated in Article 1 
shall not be deemed a bill of exchange except in the following cases:  
a) If a bill does not include a maturity date, it shall be deemed payable at sight. 
b) If a bill does not include a place of payment or the drawee’s domicile, the 
place indicated next to the drawee’s name shall be deemed both the place 
of payment and the drawee’s domicile. 
c) If a bill does not include the place of issuance, it shall be deemed issued in 
the place indicated next to the drawer’s name. 
Article 3  
A bill of exchange may be drawn to the order of the drawer or the order of 
another person, and may be drawn on the drawer’s account.  
Article 4  
A bill of exchange may stipulate that payment be made in the domicile of a 
person other than the drawee, whether such domicile is in the place where the 
drawee’s domicile is located or elsewhere.  
Article 5  
If the amount of the bill of exchange is written both in words and in figures, the 
amount written in words shall prevail in case of a discrepancy; if the amount is 
written multiple times in words or figures, the lesser amount shall prevail in case 
of a discrepancy.  
  3 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Papers Law 
 
 
 
Article 6  
Stipulating interest in a bill of exchange shall render the bill null and void. 
Article 7  
The competence of an obligor to pay a bill of exchange shall be governed by 
the law of his country of residence. For Saudi nationals, the age of competence 
is 18.  
If a person is deemed incompetent under the law in force in his country, his 
obligation under the bill shall remain valid if he signs it in the territory of a 
country where he is deemed competent under its law. 
Article 8  
The  obligations  of  minors  who  are  not  merchants  and  the  obligations  of 
incompetent persons which arise from their signatures on the bill of exchange 
shall be invalid; such invalidity may be invoked against holders of the bill, 
including bona fide holders. 
Article 9  
If a bill of exchange bears the signatures of incompetent or fictitious persons, 
or forged signatures, or signatures that, for any other reason, are not binding 
on the signatories of the bill or the persons in whose names the bill is signed, 
the obligations of the remaining signatories shall remain valid. 
Article 10  
A person who signs a bill of exchange on behalf of another person without his 
authorization shall be personally liable under the bill; if said person satisfies the 
bill, the rights that are conferred on the person he claims to represent shall pass 
on to him. This provision shall apply to any person who exceeds the limits of 
his authorization. 
Article 11  
The drawer of a bill of exchange shall guarantee its acceptance and payment. 
He may stipulate that he be exempted from guaranteeing the acceptance, but 
not the payment, of the bill.  
Chapter 2: Negotiating a Bill of Exchange by Indorsement 
Article 12  
A bill of exchange may be negotiated by indorsement, even if it is not explicitly 
issued “to order”. A bill whose drawer has written therein the statement “not to 
order” or any similar statement may not be negotiated except in accordance 
  4 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Papers Law 
 
 
 
with the provisions governing the transfer of rights. A bill may be indorsed to its 
drawee whether he accepts the bill or not. The bill may also be indorsed to its 
drawer or to any other obligor. Such persons may re-indorse the bill. 
Article 13  
An indorsement must be unconditional, and any condition attached to the 
indorsement shall be deemed null and void. A partial indorsement shall also be 
deemed null and void. An indorsement to bearer shall be deemed a blank 
indorsement. 
Article 14  
An indorsement shall be written on the bill of exchange or on a paper attached 
thereto and shall be signed by the indorser. An indorsement may not include 
the name of the indorsee, and may include only the signature of the indorser 
(blank indorsement). 
If a bill is indorsed in blank, the bearer may fill in the blank either with his own 
name or with the name of another person, re-indorse the bill in blank or to 
another person, or deliver the bill to another person without filling in the blank 
and without indorsing it. 
Article 15  
An indorser of a bill of exchange shall guarantee its acceptance and payment 
unless stipulated otherwise. He may stipulate that the bill not be re-indorsed 
and shall not, in such case, be liable toward future indorsees with regards to 
guaranteeing its acceptance or payment. 
Article 16  
The bearer of a bill of exchange shall be deemed the lawful holder thereof if he 
proves his entitlement thereto by uninterrupted indorsements even if the last 
indorsement is in blank. Indorsements which are stricken out shall be deemed 
null and void.  
If a blank indorsement is followed by another indorsement, the signatory on the 
latter shall be deemed the indorsee of the blank indorsement. 
If a person loses possession of a bill due to an accident, its holder shall not be 
obliged to relinquish his right thereto if he is able to establish such right 
according to the preceding provisions, unless he acquired it in bad faith or as a 
result of a gross offense he committed.  
Article 17  
Indorsement shall transfer all the rights arising from a bill of exchange. 
A person against whom an action relating to a bill is filed may not invoke against 
the holder defenses that are based on his personal relationship with the drawer 
or previous holders, unless the intention of the holder at the time of obtaining 
  5 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Papers Law 
 
 
 
the bill was to inflict harm on the debtor. 
Article 18  
If an indorsement contains the statement "value for collection," "value for 
receipt," "by proxy," or any other words indicating procuration, the holder may 
exercise all rights which arise from the bill of exchange, but may not indorse it 
except by proxy. In such case, the obligors to a bill may only invoke against the 
holder the defenses that could be raised against the indorser. The procuration 
which arises from the proxy indorsement shall not expire if the indorser dies or 
becomes incompetent.  
Article 19 
If an indorsement contains the statement "value as security,” "value as pledge," 
or any other words indicating pledge, the holder may exercise all rights which 
arise from the bill of exchange.  
If a holder indorses the bill, the indorsement shall be deemed to have been 
made by proxy. The debtor under a bill may only invoke against its holder the 
defenses that are based on his personal relationship with the indorser, unless 
the intention of the holder at the time of obtaining the bill was to inflict harm on 
the debtor.  
Article 20  
Any indorsement made after the maturity date shall produce the same effects 
of any indorsement made prior to such date. Any indorsement made after a 
non-payment protest or after the expiration of the period prescribed for making 
such protest shall produce the effects of the transfer of rights. An undated 
indorsement shall be deemed to have been made prior to the expiration period 
prescribed for making a protest, unless proven otherwise. An indorsement may 
not be antedated; otherwise, it shall be deemed a forgery. 
Chapter 3: Acceptance of a Bill of Exchange 
Article 21  
The holder or bearer of a bill of exchange may, until the maturity date, present 
it for acceptance to the drawee at his domicile. 
The drawer of a bill may stipulate its presentment for acceptance, whether 
dated or undated; he may also stipulate that the bill not be presented for 
acceptance unless it is due for payment by a person other than the drawee, or 
at a place other than the drawee’s domicile, or after sight if it is payable upon 
the lapse of a fixed period thereafter; as well as stipulate that it not be presented 
for acceptance prior to a fixed date. 
Any indorser of a bill may stipulate its presentment for acceptance, whether 
  6 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Papers Law 
 
 
 
dated or undated, unless the drawer stipulates non-presentment thereof. 
Article 22  
A bill of exchange payable at a fixed period after sight shall be presented for 
acceptance within one year from its date of issuance. The drawer may reduce 
or extend such period; however, an indorser may only reduce it. 
Article 23  
A drawee may request the bill of exchange presented thereto for acceptance to 
be presented on the following day. 
Any claim made by concerned persons that such request constitutes a refusal 
of  the  acceptance  shall  not  be  admissible  unless  the  presentment  for 
acceptance is stated in the protest. 
The holder of a bill presented for acceptance shall not be obliged to relinquish 
his right thereto or deliver it to the drawee. 
Article 24  
Acceptance  shall  be  established  on  the  bill  of  exchange  using  the  word 
“accepted” or any other similar word and shall be signed by the drawee. The 
signature of the drawee on the face of the bill shall be deemed an acceptance 
thereof. If the bill is payable upon the lapse of a fixed period after sight or it 
must be presented for acceptance at a fixed period pursuant to a specific 
stipulation,  the  date  of  acceptance  must  be stated  on  the  same  day  the 
acceptance is effected, unless the holder stipulates that the date of acceptance 
be stated on the day of presentment. If the acceptance is not dated, the holder 
may, in order to exercise his right of recourse against indorsers or the drawer, 
establish the omission of the date by a protest made within the prescribed 
period. 
Article 25  
Acceptance of a bill of exchange must be unconditional; however, the drawee 
may limit acceptance to part of its amount. 
Including any information in the statement of acceptance that is inconsistent 
with the particulars of the bill shall be deemed refusal of acceptance; however, 
the acceptor shall remain bound by his statement of acceptance. 
Article 26  
If the drawee strikes out the statement of acceptance written on the bill of 
exchange prior to returning it, such action shall be deemed non-acceptance.  
The act of striking out the statement of acceptance shall be deemed to have 
been made prior to returning the bill, unless proven otherwise. However, if the 
drawee notifies the holder or any other signatory of his acceptance in writing, 
such acceptance shall make him liable toward them. 
  7 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Papers Law 
 
 
 
Article 27  
If the drawer designates on the bill of exchange a place of payment other than 
the  drawee’s  domicile  without  naming  the  person  in  whose  domicile  the 
payment is to be made, the drawee may designate the place of payment at the 
time of acceptance. If the drawee fails to do so, he shall be liable for payment 
in the designated place of payment. 
If the bill is payable at the drawee’s domicile, he may designate in the statement 
of acceptance an address in such domicile where payment is to be made. 
Article 28  
If the drawee accepts the bill of exchange, he shall pay it on the maturity date. 
If the drawee refuses to pay, the holder may, even if he is the drawer, file a 
claim against the acceptor demanding all the rights he is entitled to under 
Articles 60 and 61. 
Chapter 4: Funds for Payment 
Article 29  
The drawer of a bill of exchange or the person he assigns to draw the bill for 
his account shall ensure the funds for payment are available with drawee. 
However, the person assigned to draw a bill for the account of another person 
shall not be exempted from personal liability toward the indorsers and holders 
of the bill. 
Article 30  
The funds for payment shall be deemed available if, on the bill’s maturity date, 
the drawee owes the drawer or the person who ordered the drawing of the bill 
a fixed amount of money which is payable and is equal to or higher than the 
amount of the bill. 
The drawee’s acceptance of a bill shall be deemed presumptive evidence of 
the availability of funds sufficient for payment, unless he establishes otherwise. 
If the drawee denies availability of sufficient funds, regardless of acceptance of 
the bill, the responsibility of establishing that sufficient funds for payment were 
in his possession on the maturity date shall fall solely on the drawer. If he fails 
to establish such fact, he shall guarantee payment of the bill, even if he makes 
a protest after the prescribed period. 
If  the  drawer  establishes  that  sufficient  funds  for  payment  were  in  the 
possession of the drawee until the lapse of the prescribed period for protest, 
his liability shall be discharged to the extent of the value of the funds unless 
expended for his benefit. 
  8 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Papers Law 
 
 
 
Article 31  
The ownership of the amount of the bill of exchange shall, under this Law, 
transfer to the successive holders of the bill. If the funds are insufficient to pay 
the value of the bill, the holder shall have against the insufficient funds all the 
rights due to him against the full funds. 
Article 32  
If the funds for payment of multiple bills of exchange that are payable on the 
same day are insufficient, the payment thereof shall be determined according 
to the bills’ dates of issuance, from earliest to latest. If all the bills are drawn on 
the  same  date,  priority  shall  be  given  to  the  bills  carrying  the  drawee’s 
acceptance, followed by the bills for the payment of which funds are allocated, 
and finally to the bills carrying a non-acceptance stipulation. 
Article 33  
The drawer shall, even if he makes the protest after the prescribed period, 
deliver to the holder of a bill of exchange the documents required for its 
payment. If the drawer becomes bankrupt, liability for payment shall pass on to 
persons specified under the law. 
In all cases, the holder of the bill shall incur all related expenses. 
Article 34  
If the drawer becomes bankrupt, even prior to the maturity date of the bill of 
exchange, the holder of the bill shall have priority over other creditors of the 
drawer to receive his share of the funds duly available with the drawee. If the 
drawee becomes bankrupt and the funds for payment of the bill are still owed 
to the holder, the debt shall be included in the drawee’s bankruptcy assets. If 
payment can be made through the sale of property in accordance with the 
bankruptcy provisions, the holder shall have priority over other creditors to 
receive payment of the bill. 
Chapter 5: Reserve Guarantee 
Article 35  
Payment of a bill of exchange may be guaranteed in whole or in part by a 
reserve guarantor. Said guarantee may be made by any person, including the 
bill's signatories. 
Article 36  
A reserve guarantee shall be established on the bill of exchange itself or on a 
paper  attached  thereto  including  the  statement  “accepted  as  a  reserve 
guarantee” or any other similar words and shall be signed by the guarantor. The 
  9 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Papers Law 
 
 
 
name of the guaranteed person shall be indicated in the guarantee; otherwise, 
the guarantee shall be deemed made in favor of the drawer. 
The  signature  of  the  guarantor  on  the  face  of  the  bill  shall  validate  the 
guarantee, unless the signature is made by the drawee or the drawer. The 
reserve guarantee may also be established on a separate paper indicating the 
place where such guarantee is made.  
In such case, the reserve guarantor shall be liable only toward the person in 
whose favor the guarantee is made. 
Article 37  
A reserve guarantor shall be as liable as a guaranteed person. The liability of 
the reserve guarantor shall remain valid even if such liability is invalidated for 
any reason other than a defect in form. If a reserve guarantor pays the bill of 
exchange, the rights which arise therefrom against the guaranteed person and 
against the obligor who is liable toward the latter under the bill shall pass on to 
the guarantor. 
Chapter 6: Payment of the Bill of Exchange  
Section 1: Time of Payment 
Article 38  
A payable bill of exchange may be drawn at sight, upon the lapse of a fixed 
period after sight, upon the lapse of a fixed period from the date of its issuance, 
or on a fixed date.  
A  bill  may  not  include other  maturity  dates or  successive  maturity dates; 
otherwise, it shall be deemed null and void. 
Article 39  
A bill of exchange payable at sight must be paid upon presentment and shall 
be presented for payment within one year from its date of issuance. The drawer 
may reduce or extend such period, but an indorser may only reduce it. The 
drawer may stipulate that a bill payable at sight not be presented for payment 
prior to the lapse of a fixed period; in such case, the presentment period shall 
commence upon the lapse of the fixed period. 
Article 40  
The maturity date of a bill of exchange payable upon the lapse of a fixed period 
after sight shall commence from the date of acceptance or the date of protest. 
If no protest is made and the acceptance is undated, the acceptance shall be 
deemed to have taken place on the last day of the period  prescribed for 
presentment of the bill for acceptance in accordance with Article 22. 
  10 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Papers Law 
 
 
 
Article 41  
A bill of exchange payable after one month or more from its issuance or sight 
thereof shall be paid on the day of the month set for payment which corresponds 
to the day of the month of issuance or the day of sight thereof. In the absence 
of a corresponding date in the month set for payment, the bill shall be paid on 
the last day of said month. 
If a bill is payable after one month and a half or after several months and a half 
month from its date of issuance or sight thereof, only full months shall be 
counted toward the date of payment.  
If the bill is payable at the beginning, middle, or end of a month, it shall mean 
the first, fifteenth, or last day of such month, respectively.  
The statement “eight days” or “fifteen days” shall not mean one or two weeks, 
respectively, but shall actually mean eight or fifteen days, and the statement 
“half a month” shall mean fifteen days. 
Article 42  
If a bill of exchange is payable on a fixed date and in a country that uses a 
different calendar from that of the country where it is issued, the maturity date 
shall be determined according to the calendar of the country where it is payable. 
If a bill is issued between two countries using different calendars and is payable 
upon the lapse of a fixed period from its date of issuance, the date of issuance 
shall be the corresponding date of the calendar of the country where the bill is 
payable and the maturity date shall be determined accordingly. The date of the 
bill’s  presentment  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  preceding 
provisions. 
The preceding provisions shall not apply if the bill stipulates or its particulars 
indicate otherwise. 
Section 2: Method of Payment  
Article 43  
The holder of a bill of exchange shall present it for payment on its maturity date. 
Presentment of the bill to any of the legally recognized clearing houses shall be 
deemed presentment for payment. 
Article 44  
If a drawee pays a bill of exchange, he may require delivery of the bill from the 
holder signed as duly paid. The holder may not refuse partial payment.  
In case of partial payment, the drawee may require that such payment be 
indicated on the bill and that he be provided with a quittance to this effect. The 
drawer, indorsers, and other obligors under the bill shall be discharged of 
liability to the extent of the amount paid from the total value of the bill. The 
holder may make a protest regarding the unpaid amount. 
  11 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Papers Law 
 
 
 
Article 45  
A holder of a bill of exchange shall not be obliged to receive its value prior to its 
maturity date. 
If the drawee pays the bill prior to its maturity date, he shall be liable for the 
consequences. Any person who pays a bill on its maturity date without a valid 
objection shall be discharged of liability, unless he commits an act of fraud or 
gross  negligence.  Said  person  shall  ensure  that  the  indorsements  are 
uninterrupted, but he shall not be responsible for verifying the authenticity of 
the indorsers’ signatures. 
Article 46  
If a bill of exchange stipulates payment be made in a currency that is not in 
circulation in the Kingdom, payment shall be made using a currency that is in 
circulation in the Kingdom at its rate of exchange on the bill's maturity date. If 
payment is not made on such date, the holder may choose to claim the amount 
of the bill in a currency that is in circulation in the Kingdom either at the rate of 
exchange on its maturity date or date of payment.  
The customary practice in the Kingdom shall be applied in determining the rate 
of exchange of foreign currency. The drawer may, however, indicate on the bill 
the rate on the basis of which the payable amount is to be exchanged. 
If the amount of the bill is denominated in a currency the name of which in the 
country of issuance and in the country of payment is similar but the value of 
which is different, it shall mean the currency of the country of payment. 
Article 47  
If the bill of exchange is not presented for payment on its maturity date, each 
debtor may deposit the bill’s amount with the agency designated by the Minister 
of Commerce and Industry, and the deposit shall be made at the holder’s 
expense and he shall be liable therefor. Said agency shall provide the depositor 
with a deposit receipt indicating the amount deposited, the bill’s dates of 
issuance and maturity, and the name of the original beneficiary. If the holder 
demands payment from the debtor, the debtor shall deliver to him the deposit 
receipt against the holder's delivery of the bill. 
The holder shall be entitled to receive the amount from said agency pursuant 
to such receipt. If the debtor fails to deliver the deposit receipt to the holder, he 
must pay the bill. 
Section 3: Objection to Payment 
Article 48  
The payment of a bill of exchange may not be objected to unless the bill is lost, 
or its holder becomes bankrupt or is incompetent. 
  12 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Papers Law 
 
 
 
Article 49  
If an unaccepted bill of exchange issued in several copies is lost, the person 
entitled to its value may demand payment pursuant to any copy thereof. 
If a bill is issued in several copies and the copy bearing the statement of 
acceptance is lost, payment of the bill may not be demanded pursuant to any 
of  the  remaining  copies,  except  pursuant  to  an  order  from  the  agency 
designated  by  the  Minister  of  Commerce  and  Industry;  in  such  case,  a 
guarantor shall be provided. 
Article 50  
If a bill of exchange is lost, whether accepted or not, and its holder fails to 
present any copy thereof, he may obtain from the agency designated by the 
Minister of Commerce and Industry an order for its payment, provided he 
establishes his ownership of the bill and registers the same. 
Article 51  
If, upon demand, a lost bill of exchange is not paid in accordance with the 
preceding provisions, the owner shall, in order to protect his rights, establish 
such non-payment in a protest to be made on the day following the maturity 
date and the obligors to the bill shall be notified thereof according to the 
specified manner and dates. 
The protest shall be made and the obligors shall be notified thereof even if the 
competent agency order cannot be obtained in due course.  
Article 52  
The owner of a lost bill of exchange may obtain a copy thereof by tracing it back 
to its drawer through the person who indorsed the bill to him and previous 
indorsers. Each indorser shall assist the owner of the bill and allow him to use 
his name to trace the indorsements up to the drawer. The drawer shall make a 
copy of the bill indicating thereon that it is a replacement copy and each indorser 
shall re-indorse it. 
A demand for payment may not be made pursuant to such copy, except by an 
order from the competent agency designated by the Minister of Commerce and 
Industry; in such case, a guarantor shall be provided. The owner of the lost bill 
shall incur any related expenses. 
Article 53  
The debtor shall, pursuant to an order from the competent agency referred to 
in the preceding articles, be liable for payment of the bill of exchange on its 
maturity date. The guarantor referred to in Articles 49, 50, and 52 shall be 
discharged of liability upon the lapse of three years if no claim or lawsuit is filed 
before the agency designated by the Minister of Commerce and Industry. 
  13 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Papers Law 
 
 
 
Section 4: Refusal of Payment 
First: Protest 
Article 54  
The holder of a bill of exchange shall record the non-acceptance or non-
payment  in  an  official document  called  "non-acceptance protest"  or  "non-
payment protest". Such protest shall not be replaced by any other action and 
shall be made in coordination with the agency designated by the Minister of 
Commerce and Industry. The protest shall include an identical copy of the bill 
including the statements of acceptance, indorsements, guarantees, and any 
other particulars recorded in the original bill, as well as the bill's payment notice. 
The protest shall also indicate the presence or absence of the person liable for 
acceptance or payment. Said agency shall deliver a copy of the protest to the 
person against whom it has been made. It shall record, in a special register 
whose pages are numbered and duly marked, the protests in a chronological 
order. Entries in said register shall be made in the same manner used in catalog 
records. 
Said  agency  shall,  within  the  first  10  days  of  each  month,  provide  the 
Commercial Register Office with a list of non-payment protests made during the 
previous  month  for  accepted  bills.  The  Commercial  Register  Office  shall 
maintain a register for recording such protests and any person may access 
such  register  and  obtain  identical  copies  thereof  upon  payment  of  the 
prescribed fees. The Office shall announce such protests. 
Article 55  
A non-acceptance protest shall be made during the periods prescribed for 
presentment of the bill of exchange for acceptance. 
If the first presentment for acceptance, in accordance with Article 23, is made 
on the last day of the period prescribed for presentment, the protest may be 
made on the following day. The protest for non-payment of a bill payable on a 
fixed date or within a fixed period from its date of issuance or from the date of 
sight thereof shall be made within the two days following the maturity date. If 
the bill is payable at sight, the protest for non-payment shall be made in 
accordance with the stipulations stated in the preceding paragraph regarding 
the protest for non-acceptance. 
The protest for non-acceptance shall render the presentment of the bill for 
payment and the making of a protest for non-payment unnecessary. 
If the drawee, whether he accepts the bill or not, stops payment or if an 
unavailing attachment has been imposed on his assets, the holder may not 
exercise  his  right  of  recourse  against  his  guarantors  except  after  the 
presentment of the bill to the drawee for payment and after making the protest 
for non-payment. 
If the drawee becomes bankrupt, whether he accepts the bill or not, and if the 
drawer  of  the  bill  stipulating  non-presentment  for  acceptance  becomes 
  14 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Papers Law 
 
 
 
bankrupt, the presentment of the bankruptcy judgement shall be sufficient to 
enable the holder to exercise his right of recourse against the guarantors. 
Article 56  
The holder of a bill of exchange shall notify the drawer and the person who 
indorsed it to him of the non-acceptance or non-payment of the bill within four 
business days following the day of the protest or of non-presentment of the bill 
for  acceptance  or  payment  if  it  includes  the  stipulation  “recourse  without 
expenses” or “without protest”.  
Each indorser shall, within two business days following his receipt of the notice, 
notify the person who indorsed the bill to him of the notice he has received, 
stating the names and addresses of the previous notifiers; the notifications shall 
be made by each of the indorsers up to the drawer.  
The prescribed period for notification shall commence from the date of the 
indorser's receipt of the notice. If a signatory of a bill is notified within the 
prescribed period, his reserve guarantor shall be notified within the same 
period. If a signatory of the bill has not stated his address thereon or has 
provided the same in an illegible manner, it shall be deemed sufficient to notify 
his indorser. The person required to give notice may do so in any manner, even 
by returning such bill and he must establish that he made the notification within 
the prescribed period. The period of notification shall be deemed observed if 
the notice is sent by registered mail within such period. The rights of the person 
required to give notice shall not be forfeited by his failure to do so within the 
prescribed period. However, he shall, if necessary, provide compensation for 
any harm resulting from his negligence, provided the amount of compensation 
does not exceed the amount of the bill. 
Article 57  
The holder of the bill of exchange need not make, when exercising his right of 
recourse, a protest for non-acceptance or non-payment if the drawer and any 
reserve indorser guarantees the bill and includes above his signature the 
stipulation  “recourse  without  expenses”  or  “without  protest”  or  any  other 
statement to that effect.  
Such stipulation shall not exempt the holder from presentment of the bill on the 
prescribed dates nor from making the required notifications. Any party asserting 
non-observation of such dates against the holder shall be required to establish 
the same. 
If  the  drawer  includes  such  stipulation,  it  shall  be  effective  against  all 
signatories. However, if the stipulation is included by an indorser or a reserve 
guarantor, it shall be effective only against him. If the stipulation is included by 
the drawer and the holder makes a protest despite this fact, the holder alone 
shall incur the expenses. If, however, the stipulation is included by an indorser 
or a reserve guarantor, the holder may, if he makes a protest, exercise his right 
of recourse against all signatories with respect to the expenses thereof.  
  15 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Papers Law 
 
 
 
Second: Holder’s Rights 
A. Right of Recourse  
Article 58  
The drawer, acceptor, indorser, and reserve guarantor of a bill of exchange 
shall all be jointly liable to the holder. The holder shall exercise his right of 
recourse against such persons jointly or severally, without having to adhere to 
any specific order. The same right of recourse shall apply to any signatory of 
the bill who has paid its amount against those liable to him. 
A claim filed against an obligor shall not prevent the filing of a claim against any 
other obligor, even if his liability is subsequent to that of the obligor against 
whom the initial claim is filed. 
Article 59  
A holder of a bill of exchange not paid on its maturity date shall have the right 
of recourse against the drawer, indorsers, and any other obligors. He may 
exercise his right of recourse prior to the bill's maturity date in the following 
cases:  
1. Total or partial non-acceptance. 
2. If the drawee becomes bankrupt, whether he has accepted the bill or not; if 
he stops payment of dues owed by him, even if not established by a court 
judgment; or if an unavailing attachment is imposed on his assets. 
3. If the drawer of the bill which includes a stipulation for non-presentment for 
acceptance becomes bankrupt.  
The guarantors against whom the right of recourse is exercised in the cases 
mentioned in paragraphs (2) and (3) of this Article may, within three days from 
the  date  of  recourse,  petition  the  agency  designated  by  the  Minister  of 
Commerce and Industry to grant them a grace period for payment. If said 
agency approves the petition, it shall issue an order determining the duration of 
such period, provided it does not exceed the bill’s maturity date; such order 
shall be final. 
Article 60  
The holder of a bill of exchange may claim the following from any person against 
whom he has a right of recourse:  
a) Original amount of the non-accepted or non-paid bill. 
b) Expenses of protests and notices, and any other expenses.  
If recourse is made prior to the bill’s maturity date, an amount equal to the 
official rate of discount applicable on the date of recourse at the holder’s 
domicile shall be deducted from the amount of the bill. 
Article 61  
A person who pays the amount of a bill of exchange may claim from his 
  16 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Papers Law 
 
 
 
guarantors: 
a) the full amount he pays; and 
b) any expenses he incurs. 
Article 62  
Any obligor under a bill of exchange who is called upon, or is likely to be called 
upon, to pay the bill by way of recourse may demand delivery of the bill upon 
payment, together with the protest and a quittance for the amount paid. 
Each  indorser  who  pays  the  bill  may  strike  out  his  indorsement  and  all 
subsequent indorsements. In case of recourse against an obligor for the portion 
of the bill’s amount which has not been accepted, the person who pays such 
amount may require the bill’s holder to establish such payment and provide him 
with a quittance.  
The holder shall also provide such person with a copy of the bill attested as a 
true copy, together with the protest to enable him to exercise his right of 
recourse against others for the amount he paid. 
Article 63  
A grace period may not be granted for payment of the amount of a bill of 
exchange or for taking any action related thereto, except in cases stipulated in 
this Law. 
Article 64  
In the event of force majeure rendering the presentment of a bill of exchange 
or the making of a protest infeasible within the prescribed periods, such periods 
shall be extended. 
The holder of a bill shall promptly notify his indorser of the force majeure event. 
He shall establish such notification by dating and signing it on the bill or on the 
paper attached thereto. Notifications shall be made by each of the indorsers up 
to the drawer, in accordance with Article 56. 
When the force majeure event subsides, the holder of the bill shall promptly 
present it for acceptance or payment and make, if necessary, a protest. 
If the force majeure event continues for more than 30 days from the maturity 
date, recourse may be exercised against the obligors without the need to 
present the bill or make a protest. If the bill is payable at sight or at a fixed 
period after sight, the 30-day period shall commence on the date the holder 
notifies his indorser of the force majeure event, even if such date falls prior to 
the expiry of the period fixed for presentment of the bill. 
The sight period shall be added to the 30-day period if the bill is payable at a 
fixed period after sight. 
Personal circumstances related to the holder of a bill or to the person he assigns 
to present the same or to make the protest shall not be deemed force majeure. 
  17 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Papers Law 
 
 
 
Article 65  
If the maturity date of a bill of exchange coincides with a public holiday, the 
holder may not demand payment thereof except on the following business day. 
In  addition,  any  action  relating  to  the  bill,  particularly  its  presentment  for 
acceptance or for making a protest, may only be taken on a business day. If a 
certain action must be taken within a set period the last day of which coincides 
with a public holiday, such period shall be extended to the following business 
day. Public holidays falling within the set period shall be made part thereof. The 
first day of a statutory period or the period stipulated in the bill shall not be made 
part thereof, unless this Law stipulates otherwise. 
B. Recourse Bill of Exchange 
Article 66  
Any person having a right of recourse against other obligors under a bill of 
exchange may recover his dues by issuing a new bill of exchange against one 
of his guarantors which shall, unless stipulated otherwise, be payable at sight 
at the domicile of such guarantor. 
The value of the recourse bill shall include the amounts stated in Articles 60 
and 61 of this Law, in addition to any paid commissions and fees. If the drawer 
of the recourse bill is the holder, its amount shall be determined in the same 
manner as that used in determining the value of a payable-at-sight bill issued 
at the place of payment of the original bill and payable at the place of the 
guarantor's domicile.  
If the drawer of a recourse bill is an indorser thereof, its amount shall be 
determined in the same manner as that used in determining the value of a 
payable-at-sight bill issued at the place of the drawer’s domicile and payable at 
the place of the guarantor's domicile.  
In case of multiple recourse bills, only the amount of a single bill may be claimed 
from the drawer of the original bill or any of its indorsers. 
C. Provisional Seizure 
Article 67  
The holder of a bill of exchange protested for non-payment may provisionally 
seize the movable property of an obligor under the bill after obtaining an order 
to that effect from the agency designated by the Minister of Commerce and 
Industry. 
  18 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Papers Law 
 
 
 
Chapter 7: Acceptance or Payment by Intervention 
Article 68  
The  drawer,  indorser,  and  reserve  guarantor  of  a  bill  of  exchange  may 
designate a person to accept or pay the bill. 
The bill may be accepted or paid by any person who intervenes in favor of any 
debtor thereof against whom a right of recourse is exercised.  
The intervener may be a third party, the drawee, or any other obligor under the 
bill, but not the acceptor thereof.  
The intervener shall, within two business days following the intervention, notify 
the  person  in  whose  favor  the  intervention  is  made  of  such  intervention; 
otherwise, he shall be liable for compensating any damage resulting from his 
negligence, provided that such compensation does not exceed the amount of 
the bill.  
Article 69  
Acceptance by intervention shall take place in cases where the holder of a bill 
of exchange that could be presented for acceptance has a right of recourse 
prior to the maturity date thereof.  
If the bill designates a person to accept it or pay its value when due at the place 
of payment, the holder may not, prior to its maturity date, exercise his right of 
recourse against the person who made the designation nor against any of the 
subsequent signatories, unless he presents the bill to the person designated 
for its acceptance or payment when due and said person refuses acceptance, 
and the holder establishes such refusal by making a protest.  
The holder may, in other cases, refuse acceptance by intervention. However, if 
the holder  agrees to such intervention, he shall forfeit his right of recourse prior 
to the maturity date against the person in whose favor the intervention is made 
as well as against subsequent signatories. 
Article 70  
Acceptance by intervention shall be established on the bill of exchange and 
signed by the intervener, and shall include the name of the person in whose 
favor the intervention is made. If the name is not indicated in the acceptance 
by intervention, such acceptance shall be deemed to have been made in favor 
of the drawer. 
Article 71  
The acceptor by intervention shall be as liable as the person in whose favor the 
intervention is made toward the holder of the bill of exchange and any indorser 
subsequent to the person in whose favor the intervention is made.  
The person in whose favor the intervention is made and his guarantors may, 
  19 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Papers Law 
 
 
 
despite the acceptance of the intervention, require the holder, upon payment of 
the amount stated in Article 60, to deliver the bill, and the protest and quittance, 
if any. If the bill is not presented to the acceptor by intervention on the day 
following the last day of the period prescribed for making the protest for non-
payment, such acceptor shall be discharged from liability. 
Article 72  
A bill of exchange may be paid by intervention in cases where, on the maturity 
date or prior thereto, the holder thereof has a right of recourse against the 
obligors under the bill.  
Such payment shall cover the full amount of the bill which the person in whose 
favor the intervention is made should have paid. The bill shall be paid not later 
than the day following the last day on which the protest for non-payment may 
be made. 
Article 73  
If the acceptors of the bill of exchange by intervention or those designated for 
its payment when due have a domicile at the place of payment, the holder shall 
present the bill to said persons for payment and, if not paid, make a protest for 
non-payment not later than the day following the last day on which the protest 
may be made.  
If  the  protest  is  not  made  within  the  prescribed  period,  the  person  who 
designated the payer of the bill when due, the person in whose favor the bill is 
accepted by intervention, and any subsequent indorser shall be discharged 
from liability. 
Article 74  
If the holder of a bill of exchange refuses payment by intervention, he shall 
forfeit his right of recourse against any person whose liability would have been 
discharged by such payment. 
Article 75  
Payment by intervention shall be established by writing a quittance on the bill 
of exchange including the name of the person in whose favor the payment is 
made. If the name is not indicated in the quittance, the payment by intervention 
shall be deemed to have been made in favor of the drawer. The bill and the 
protest, if made, shall be delivered to the payer by intervention. 
Article 76  
The payer of a bill of exchange by intervention shall acquire all the rights which 
arise therefrom against the person in whose favor the payment is made and 
against all obligors liable to the latter under the bill. Such payer may not re-
indorse the bill. 
The indorsers subsequent to the person in whose favor the payment is made 
  20 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Papers Law 
 
 
 
shall be discharged from liability. If multiple persons offer to pay the bill by 
intervention, preference shall be given to the person whose payment would 
discharge from liability the largest number of obligors under the bill.  
A person who intervenes for payment, knowing that such intervention is in 
violation of this rule, shall forfeit his right of recourse against the persons whose 
liability would have been discharged had this rule been observed. 
Chapter 8: Multiplicity of Copies and Alteration 
Article 77  
A bill of exchange may be issued in multiple identical copies. Each copy shall 
be numbered; otherwise, each copy shall be deemed a separate bill. Each 
holder of a bill which does not state that it is the only copy may acquire more 
copies at his expense. To do so, the holder may trace the bill back to its drawer 
through the person who indorsed the bill to him and previous indorsers. Each 
indorser shall assist him to trace the indorsements up to the drawer. Each 
indorser shall indorse the new copies.  
Article 78  
Any person who pays a bill of exchange upon presentment of one of its copies 
shall be discharged from liability, even if it is not stipulated in such copy that 
payment thereof renders the other copies null and void. However, the drawee 
shall remain liable for payment under each copy he accepts but fails to recover. 
An indorser who indorses the copies of the bill to different persons and any 
subsequent indorsers shall remain liable under each copy they sign but fail to 
recover. 
Article 79  
Any person who sends a copy of a bill of exchange for acceptance shall state 
on the other copies the name of the person in possession of the sent copy. The 
person in possession of the sent copy shall deliver it to the lawful holder of the 
other copies, and if he refuses to do so, the holder shall have no right of 
recourse unless he establishes, pursuant to a protest, that the copy sent for 
acceptance  has  not  been  delivered  to  him  despite  his  request  and  that 
acceptance or payment of any of the other copies has not been made upon 
presentment thereof. 
Article 80  
The holder of a bill of exchange may make copies thereof. Each copy must be 
identical to the original bill, including all indorsements and other particulars. 
Upon copying all the indorsements and particulars, he shall indicate the point 
at which the copying ends. Such copy shall be subject to the same provisions 
applicable to the original, including those relating to indorsers and reserve 
  21 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Papers Law 
 
 
 
guarantors. 
Article 81  
A copy of a bill of exchange shall indicate the name of the person in possession 
of the original bill, and the latter shall deliver the original to the lawful holder of 
the copy. If the person in possession of the original refuses to deliver it, the 
holder of the copy shall have no right of recourse against the bill’s indorsers or 
reserve guarantors, unless he establishes, pursuant to a protest, that the 
original  has  not  been  delivered  to  him  upon  request.  If,  after  the  last 
indorsement made on the original bill and prior to making a copy thereof, a 
statement is written on the original bill stipulating that subsequent indorsements 
may only be made on the copy, any subsequent indorsement made on the 
original bill shall be deemed null and void. 
Article 82  
If an alteration is made to the body of a bill of exchange, the signatories 
subsequent to such alteration shall be liable under the altered bill. However, the 
previous signatories shall be liable under the original bill. 
Chapter 9: Effects of a Holder’s Negligence (Forfeiture) 
Article 83  
The holder of a bill of exchange shall forfeit his rights which arise therefrom 
against the drawer, indorsers, and other obligors under the bill, but not against 
the acceptor thereof, after the expiry of the periods prescribed for carrying out 
the following: 
a) Presentment of a bill payable at sight or at a fixed period thereafter. 
b) Making a protest for non-acceptance or non-payment. 
c) Presentment  of  the  bill  for  payment  if  the  stipulation  “recourse  without 
expenses” or “without protest” is stated therein. 
The drawer shall not benefit from such forfeiture unless he establishes that the 
funds for payment are available on the maturity date; in such case, the holder 
may only have recourse against the drawee. 
If the bill is not presented for acceptance within the period stipulated by the 
drawer, the holder thereof shall forfeit his right of recourse on the grounds of 
non-acceptance and non-payment, unless it is assumed from the stipulation 
that the drawer only intended to discharge himself from guaranteeing the 
acceptance. 
If the indorser stipulates in the indorsement a date for presentment of the bill 
for acceptance, only such indorser may benefit from such stipulation. 
  22 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Papers Law 
 
 
 
Chapter 10: Claim Dismissal  
Article 84  
Without prejudice to the rights of the holder which arise from his original 
relationship with the person from whom he received the bill of exchange, a claim 
which arises from the bill against the acceptor thereof shall not be heard upon 
the lapse of three years from its maturity date nor a claim filed by the holder 
against the drawer or the indorsers upon the lapse of one year from the date of 
the protest made within the prescribed period or from the maturity date if the 
stipulation “recourse without expenses” or “without protest” is stated in the bill. 
A claim filed by the indorsers against each other or against the drawer shall not 
be heard upon the lapse of six months from the day on which an indorser pays 
the bill or from the day on which the claim is filed against him. 
Article 85  
If a claim is filed, the periods prescribed in Article 84 shall only take effect from 
the date of the last action taken. Such periods shall not apply if a judgment debt 
is rendered or if the debtor acknowledges the debt on a separate document and 
a debt rollover arises therefrom. 
Article 86  
Interruption of the prescribed periods shall not affect the person against whom 
the action causing the interruption was taken. 
Part 2: Promissory Note 
Article 87  
A promissory note shall include:  
a) the statements “payable to order” or “promissory note” written in the body of 
the instrument and in the language in which the note is made;  
b) an unconditional promise to pay a fixed amount of money;  
c) maturity date; 
d) place of payment;  
e) name of the payee, whether the note is payable to bearer or to order;  
f)  date and place of making the promissory note; and 
g) signature of the person who made the note (maker). 
Article 88  
A note that does not include any of the particulars stated in Article 87 shall not 
  23 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Papers Law 
 
 
 
be deemed a promissory note except in the following cases:  
a) If a note does not include a maturity date, it shall be deemed payable at sight.  
b) If a note does not include a place of payment or the maker's domicile, the 
place where the note is made shall be deemed the place of payment and the 
maker's domicile.  
c) If a note does not include the place where the note is made, it shall be 
deemed to have been made at the place indicated next to the maker’s name.  
Article 89  
The following provisions applicable to a bill of exchange shall apply to a 
promissory note to the extent they are consistent with its nature:  
a) The provisions relating to a bill of exchange payable at the domicile of a third 
party or at a place other than the place where the drawee's domicile is 
located; discrepancies in the particulars of the amount payable; nullity of the 
interest stipulation; competency; effects which arise from an incompetent 
person's  signature,  a  nonbinding  signature,  or  the  signature  of  an 
unauthorized person or a person who exceeds the limits of his authorization. 
b) The provisions relating to indorsement and the reserve guarantee of a bill of 
exchange;  if  the  name  of  the  guaranteed  person  is  not  stated  in  the 
statement of guarantee, the guarantee shall be deemed made in favor of the 
maker of the note. 
c) The  provisions  governing  a  bill  of  exchange  which  relate  to  maturity, 
payment,  objection  to  payment,  protest,  recourse  due  to  non-payment, 
refusal to grant grace periods for payment, determination of periods and 
business days, recourse bill of exchange, and provisional seizure.  
d) The provisions relating to payment by intervention, multiplicity of copies and 
alteration, the effects of a holder’s negligence, and claim dismissal. 
Article 90  
The maker of a promissory note shall be as liable as the acceptor of a bill of 
exchange. Presentment of a promissory note payable upon the lapse of a fixed 
period after sight shall be made to the maker within the period provided for in 
Article 22 in order for him to enter a note thereon indicating that it has been 
sighted; such note shall be dated and signed by the maker. The period of sight 
shall commence from the date of such entry. If the maker refuses to make such 
entry, his refusal shall be established by a protest and the date thereof shall be 
deemed the commencement date of the period of sight. 
  24 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Papers Law 
 
 
 
Part 3: Checks  
Chapter 1: Check Issuance 
Article 91  
A check shall include:  
a) the word “check” written in the body of the instrument and in the language in 
which it is issued; 
b) an unconditional order to pay a fixed amount of money;  
c) name of the obligor (drawee); 
d) place of payment; 
e) date and place of issuance; and 
f)  signature of the issuer (drawer). 
Article 92 
An instrument that does not include the particulars stated in Article 91 shall not 
be deemed a check, except in the following cases:  
a. If a check does not include a place of payment, the check shall be payable 
at the place indicated next to the drawee’s name. If several places are indicated 
next to the drawee’s name, the check shall be payable at the first indicated 
place. If such places or any other place are not indicated on the check, it shall 
be payable at the drawee's principal domicile.  
b. If the check's place of issuance is not indicated, it shall be deemed to have 
been issued at the place indicated next to the drawer’s name. 
Article 93  
A check issued in the Kingdom and payable therein may only be drawn on a 
bank. Instruments issued in the form of checks which are drawn on other than 
a bank shall not be deemed valid checks. 
Article 94  
A check may not be issued unless the drawer, at the time of issuing the check, 
holds with the drawee funds they explicitly or implicitly agree to be disposed of 
by means of a check. A person who issues a check or orders another person 
to issue the same for his account shall provide funds for the payment thereof. 
However, the issuer of a check for the account of another person shall be liable 
only toward the indorsers and the holder. In the event of denial, only the issuer 
of the check shall establish that the drawee had sufficient funds to pay the check 
at the time of issuance; if he fails to do so, he shall guarantee the payment of 
the check even if a protest is made after the prescribed periods. Unavailability 
  25 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Papers Law 
 
 
 
or insufficiency of funds for payment shall not render the check invalid.  
Article 95  
A check may be made payable to:  
a) a specific person, whether or not it is explicitly stipulated “to the order of”;  
b) a specific person with the stipulation “not to the order” or any other statement 
to that effect; or  
c) the holder of the check.  
A check shall be deemed issued to bearer if it is issued in favor of a specific 
person and includes the stipulation “or to bearer” or any other statement to that 
effect or if the name of the beneficiary is not indicated therein. If the stipulation 
"non-negotiable" is included on a check, it shall be payable only to the bearer 
who receives it thereafter. 
Article 96  
A check may be issued to the order of the drawer or to the order of another 
person. However, a check may not be issued to the order of the drawer unless 
it is drawn on any of the branches of a bank controlled by the same central 
office, and the check must not include the stipulation "payable to bearer". 
Article 97  
The drawer shall guarantee the payment of the check; any stipulation which 
exempts the drawer from such guarantee shall be deemed null and void. 
Chapter 2: Check Negotiation  
Article 98  
Negotiation of a check stipulated to be payable to a specific person, whether or 
not  the  stipulation  "to  order"  is  explicitly  included  thereon,  shall  be  by 
indorsement.  
Negotiation of a check stipulated to be payable to a specific person which 
contains the statement “not to the order” or any other statement to that effect 
shall be subject to the provisions of the transfer of rights.  
A  check may be indorsed to its drawer or to any other obligor and each of them 
may re-indorse the check. An indorsement to the drawee shall be deemed a 
quittance, unless the drawee owns several establishments and the indorsement 
is made in favor of an establishment other than the one on which the check has 
been drawn. 
Article 99  
Negotiation of a check payable to its bearer shall commence upon delivery. The 
indorsement of such check shall render the indorser liable under the provisions 
  26 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Papers Law 
 
 
 
of recourse; however, such indorsement shall not render the check payable "to 
order". 
Chapter 3: Check Certification  
Article 100  
A drawee may not include a statement of acceptance on a check; any statement 
to that effect shall be deemed null and void. However, the drawee may mark 
the check as certified. Such certification shall establish the availability of funds 
sufficient for payment on the date of certification. The drawee may not refuse 
to certify the check if sufficient funds for payment are available. The drawee’s 
signature on the face of the check shall be deemed certification thereof.  
Chapter 4: Reserve Guarantee 
Article 101  
Payment of the value of a check may be guaranteed in whole or in part by a 
reserve guarantor. Such guarantee may be provided by a third party other than 
the drawee and may also be provided by any of the signatories of the check. 
Chapter 5: Check Presentment and Payment 
Article 102 
A check shall be payable at sight and any stipulation to the contrary shall be 
deemed null and void. If a check is presented for payment before the date of 
issuance indicated thereon, it shall be paid upon presentment. 
Article 103 
A check issued in the Kingdom and payable therein must be presented for 
payment within one month. If it is issued abroad and is payable in the Kingdom, 
it must be presented for payment within three months. Such periods shall 
commence from the date of issuance indicated on the check. Presentment of 
the check to any recognized clearing house shall be deemed presentment for 
payment. 
Article 104 
If a check is issued between two places using different calendars, the date of 
issuance shall be the corresponding date of the calendar of the country where 
the check is payable.  
  27 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Papers Law 
 
 
 
Article 105 
The drawee shall pay the check, even after the expiry of the period prescribed 
for presentment thereof. The drawer may not object to payment of the check 
prior to the expiry of the period prescribed for presentment thereof except if it 
is lost or its holder becomes bankrupt or incompetent. If the drawer dies or 
becomes bankrupt or incompetent after the check is issued, the validity thereof 
shall not be affected. 
Article 106 
If multiple checks are presented for payment on the same day and the funds 
available for their payment are insufficient, payment shall be made according 
to their date of issuance. If the presented checks are issued from the same 
checkbook  and  bear  the  same  date  of  issuance,  priority  shall  be  given 
according to the order of their serial numbers, from earliest to latest. 
Article 107  
If a check stipulates payment be made in a currency that is not in circulation in 
the Kingdom, payment shall be made on the date of its presentment using a 
currency that is in circulation in the Kingdom at its rate of exchange on the 
check's date of payment. If payment is not made on the date of presentment, 
the holder may choose to claim the amount of the check in a currency that is in 
circulation  in  the  Kingdom  either  at  the  rate  of  exchange  on  its  date  of 
presentment or date of payment.  
If the check is presented for the first time upon the lapse of the period prescribed 
for presentment thereof, the rate of exchange on the last day of such period 
shall  prevail.  The  customary  practice  in  the  Kingdom  shall  be  applied  in 
determining  the  rate  of  exchange  of  foreign  currency.  The  drawer  may, 
however, indicate on the check the rate on the basis of which the payable 
amount is to be exchanged. If the amount of the check is denominated in a 
currency the name of which in the country of issuance and in the country of 
payment is similar but the value of which is different, it shall mean the currency 
of the country of payment.  
Chapter 6: Refusal of Payment 
Article 108 
The holder of a check may exercise his right of recourse against its obligors 
jointly or severally if the check is presented within the statutory period and is 
not paid and the refusal of payment is established by making a protest. As an 
alternative, such refusal may be established through: 
a) an  acknowledgement  made  by  the  drawee  indicating  the  date  of 
presentment of the check; and 
b) an acknowledgement made by a recognized clearing house stating that the 
  28 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Papers Law 
 
 
 
check has been presented within the statutory period but has not been paid. 
Both acknowledgements shall be written on the check and shall be dated and 
signed by the issuer of the acknowledgement. The issuer may not refuse to 
include such acknowledgement on the check if requested by the holder, even 
if the check includes the stipulation “recourse without expenses”. However, the 
obligor may request a grace period not exceeding the business day following 
the presentment of the check, even if it is presented on the last day of the period 
prescribed for presentment. 
Article 109 
Refusal of payment shall be established in the manner provided for in Article 
108 prior to the expiry of the period prescribed for presentment. If the check is 
presented on the last day of the prescribed period, such refusal may be 
established on the following business day. 
Chapter 7: Multiplicity of Copies and Alteration 
Article 110 
Except for a check payable to bearer, a check may be issued in multiple 
identical copies if it is issued in one country and payable in another country. In 
such case, the copies shall be numbered; otherwise, they shall be deemed 
separate checks. 
Chapter 8: Crossed Checks and Checks Credited to an Account 
Article 111 
The drawer and holder of a check may cross it by drawing two parallel lines on 
its face. Crossing may be general or specific. If no writing is made between the 
two lines or if the word "bank" or any other word denoting the same meaning is 
inserted therebetween, the crossing shall be deemed general.  
If the name of a specific bank is inserted between the two lines, the crossing 
shall be deemed specific. A general crossing may be changed into a specific 
crossing; however, a specific crossing may not be changed into a general 
crossing. If the crossing or the name of the bank inserted between the two lines 
is stricken out, it shall be deemed null and void. 
Article 112 
A drawee may not pay a check which bears a general crossing except to a client 
or a bank and may not pay a check which bears a specific crossing except to 
the bank whose name is written between the two lines or to a client of said bank 
if the latter is the drawee. However, said bank may entrust another bank to 
  29 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Papers Law 
 
 
 
become the payee of the check. A bank may not receive a crossed check 
except from a client or another bank, nor may it become the payee of such 
check for the account of any person other than its client or the other bank. 
If the check bears multiple specific crossings, the drawee may not pay it unless 
it bears two crossings, one of which is for the collection of its value through a 
clearing house. 
Article 113 
A drawer or holder of a check may stipulate non-payment thereof in cash by 
writing on its face the statement “to be credited to the account” or any other 
statement to that effect.  
In such case, the drawee may only settle the value of the check by crediting the 
amount to the account, bank transfer, or setoff.  
Such transactions shall constitute payment and the striking out of the statement 
“to be credited to the account” shall not be valid. 
Article 114 
If a drawee fails to comply with the preceding provisions, he shall be liable for 
compensating any resulting damage, provided that such compensation does 
not exceed the amount of the check.  
Chapter 9: Effects of a Holder’s Negligence (Forfeiture) 
Article 115  
A holder of a check shall forfeit his rights against the drawer, indorsers, and 
other obligors, but not against the drawee, upon the expiry of the periods 
prescribed for presenting the check to the drawee or making a protest, or of any 
alternative action within the prescribed period. 
The drawer shall not benefit from this provision unless the funds for payment 
are deposited with the drawee and remain therewith until the expiry of the 
period prescribed for presentment of the check, after which the funds are no 
longer available due to an act not attributable to the drawer. 
Chapter 10: Claim Dismissal 
Article 116  
Recourse claims filed by the holder of a check against the drawee, drawer, 
indorser, and other obligors shall not be heard upon the lapse of six months 
from the date of expiry of the period prescribed for presentment of the check. 
Recourse claims filed by the obligors against each other shall not be heard 
  30 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Papers Law 
 
 
 
upon the lapse of six months from the date on which the obligor pays the 
amount of the check or from the date of filing the claim against him.  
Chapter 11: Bill of Exchange Rules Applicable to Checks 
Article 117  
In  addition  to  the  special  provisions  provided  in  this  Part,  the  provisions 
applicable to a bill of exchange shall apply to a check to the extent they are 
consistent with its nature. This shall include the following articles: 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 
9, 10, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 31, 33, 34(1 and 2), 36, 37, 44, 45, 49, 50, 
51, 52, 53, 54(2, 3, and 4), 55(4 and 5), 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 
67, 77(2), 78, 80, 81, 82, 85, 86, and 87.  
Chapter 12: Penalties 
Article 118  
A fine of not less than one hundred riyals and not more than two thousand riyals 
or imprisonment for a term of not less than 15 days and not more than six 
months, or both penalties, shall be imposed on any person who, in bad faith, 
issues a check that is not drawable or the funds for payment thereof are not 
available or not sufficient; withdraws funds, after issuing a check, rendering the 
remaining funds for payment insufficient; or requests the drawee not to pay the 
check. These penalties shall also be imposed on any beneficiary or holder who, 
in bad faith, receives a check the funds for payment thereof are not sufficient. 
Application of said penalties shall be in line with the provisions of Sharia. 
Article 118 (Amended)  
This Article is amended pursuant to Royal Decree No. M/45, dated 12/9/1409H, 
as follows: 
Subject to the provisions of other laws, any person who, in bad faith, commits 
any of the following acts shall be punished by imprisonment for a term not 
exceeding three years and a fine not exceeding 50 thousand riyals, or by either 
penalty if:  
a) he issues a check that is not drawable or the funds for payment thereof are 
not available or not sufficient; 
b) he withdraws, after drawing the check, funds rendering the remaining funds 
insufficient for payment thereof;  
c) he requests the drawee not to pay the check; 
d) he intentionally issues or signs a check in a way that renders it unpayable; 
e) he knowingly indorses or delivers a check that is unpayable or the funds for 
payment thereof are insufficient; and 
f)  the beneficiary or holder receives a check the funds for payment thereof are 
insufficient. 
  31 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Papers Law 
 
 
 
If an offender commits any of these crimes within three years from the date a 
judgment is rendered against him for committing any of such crimes, he shall 
be punished by imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years and a fine not 
exceeding one hundred thousand riyals, or by either penalty. 
Article 119  
Subject to the provisions of Sharia, a fine of not less than one hundred riyals 
and not more than two thousand riyals shall be imposed on any drawee who, 
in bad faith, refuses to pay a properly drawn check for which sufficient funds 
are available and no objection has been made, without prejudice to the drawer's 
right to compensation for any damage he incurs due to non-payment. 
These penalties shall also be imposed on any drawee who falsely claims that 
the available funds are not sufficient for payment. 
Article 119 (Amended)  
This Article is amended pursuant to Royal Decree No. M/45, dated 12/9/1409H, 
as follows: 
Subject to the provisions of other laws, a fine of not less than one hundred 
thousand riyals shall be imposed on any drawee who, in bad faith, refuses to 
pay a properly drawn check for which sufficient funds are available and no 
objection  has  been  made,  without  prejudice  to  the  drawer's  right  to 
compensation for any damage he incurs due to non-payment. 
These penalties shall also be imposed on any drawee who falsely claims that 
the available funds are not sufficient for payment. 
Article 120  
Subject to the provisions of Sharia, a fine of not more than five hundred riyals 
shall be imposed on any person who: 
a) issues an undated check or a check with an incorrect date; 
b) draws a check on other than a bank; and 
c) pays an undated check or receives the same by way of set-off. 
Article 120 (Amended) 
This Article is amended pursuant to Royal Decree No. M/45, dated 12/9/1409H, 
as follows: 
Subject to the provisions of other laws, a fine not exceeding 10 thousand riyals 
shall be imposed on any person who: 
a) issues an undated check or a check with an incorrect date; 
b) draws a check on other than a bank; and 
c) pays an undated check or receives the same by way of set-off. 
Article 121  
A judgment may order the publication of the names of persons against whom a 
  32 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Papers Law 
 
 
 
penalty decision has been issued under this Law; said judgment shall determine 
the manner of publication. 
  33 

NEW PAGE
Companies Law 
 
Royal Decree No. M/3 
November 10, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Translation of Saudi Laws 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
NOTE: 
The translation of Saudi laws takes the following into consideration: 
•  Words used in the singular form include the plural and vice versa.  
•  Words used in the masculine form include the feminine.  
•  Words used in the present tense include the present as well as the future.  
•  The word “person” or “persons” and their related pronouns (he, his, him, they, 
their, them) refer to a natural and legal person.  
 
   
  2 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
Companies Law 
Part 1: General Provisions 
Article 1 
The following terms and phrases, wherever mentioned in this Law, shall have 
the meanings assigned thereto, unless the context requires otherwise. 
Ministry: Ministry of Commerce and Industry. 
Minister: Minister of Commerce and Industry.  
CMA: Capital Market Authority. 
CMA’s Board: CMA’s Board of Directors. 
Chairman: Chairman of CMA’s Board. 
Competent Authority: The Ministry of Commerce and Industry. As for joint-
stock companies listed in the Capital Market, the Competent Authority shall be 
CMA. 
Law: Companies Law.  
Article 2 
A company is defined as a contract under which two or more persons undertake 
to participate in an enterprise for profit, by contributing a share in the form of 
money, work, or both, and share profit or loss resulting therefrom.  
Article 3 
1. A company incorporated in the Kingdom shall take one of the following forms:  
a) Unlimited liability company. 
b) Limited partnership. 
c) Partnership. 
d) Joint-stock company. 
e) Limited liability company. 
2. Without prejudice to paragraph 3 of this Article, any company not assuming 
any of the forms provided for in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be null and 
void, and persons entering into contracts under its name shall be personally 
and jointly liable for the obligations arising from such contract.  
3. The provisions of the Law shall not apply to companies known in Islamic 
jurisprudence, unless they take the form of one of the companies set forth in 
paragraph 1 of this Article.  
  3 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
Article 4 
Except for a partnership, a company incorporated in accordance with the Law 
shall be considered a Saudi company, and its head office shall be in the 
Kingdom. Being a Saudi company does not necessarily qualify for rights limited 
to Saudi citizens. 
Article 5 
1. A partner’s contribution may be in cash or in-kind. The contribution may also 
take the form of work, but it may not be in the form of reputation or influence.  
2. Only cash and/or in-kind contributions shall form the company’s capital. Such 
capital may be altered only in accordance with the provisions of the Law and 
in  conformity  with  conditions  set  forth  in  the  company’s  articles  of 
incorporation or articles of association.  
Article 6 
1. If a partner’s contribution is in the form of a right of ownership or usufruct or 
any other in-kind right, the partner shall, in accordance with the provisions of 
the sale contract, be liable for the guarantee of his share in case of loss, 
claim for recovery or the discovery of any defect or shortage therein. If a 
partner’s contribution is only in the form of a benefit from a personal right to 
a property, the provisions of the lease contract shall apply. 
2. If a partner’s contribution is in the form of a claim against third parties, he 
shall not be relieved from liability towards the company except after he 
collects such claim and places it at the company’s disposal during the 
prescribed period.  
3. If a partner’s contribution is in the form of work, he shall carry out such work, 
and any earnings resulting from it shall be the property of the company. The 
partner may not engage in such work for his own benefit. He shall be under 
no obligation to submit to the company any patent rights he may have 
obtained, unless agreed otherwise.  
Article 7 
A partner shall be indebted to the company for the equity he pledges. If he fails 
to deliver such equity by the due date, he shall be liable to the company for any 
damage arising from the delay.  
Article 8 
1. A personal creditor of any partner may not have his rights enforced against 
the  partner’s  share  in  the  company’s  capital.  However,  he  may,  upon 
obtaining a judgment from the competent judicial authority, have such rights 
enforced  against  the  partner’s  share  in  the  dividends  as  stated  in  the 
company’s  financial  statements.  Upon  termination  of  the  company,  the 
creditor’s claim shall be transferred to the partner’s share in the remainder 
of the company’s assets after paying the company’s debts.  
  4 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
2. A personal creditor of a shareholder may, in addition to the rights provided 
for in paragraph 1 of this Article, petition the competent judicial authority to 
sell an adequate number of shares necessary for the settlement of the debt, 
provided that shareholders in unlisted joint-stock companies have the right 
of first refusal.  
Article 9 
1. Without prejudice to paragraph 2 of this Article, all partners shall share profits 
and losses. If the partners agree to deprive any partner of profits or exempt 
him from losses, this condition shall be null and void, and the provisions of 
Article 11 of the Law shall apply.  
2. A partner whose contribution is solely in the form of work shall be exempted 
from sharing losses. 
Article 10 
1. Only distributable profits may be distributed to partners.  
2. If fictitious profits are distributed to partners, the company’s creditors may 
request each partner, including a bona fide partner, to return such profits. 
3. A  partner  shall  not  be  obligated  to  return  the  actual  dividends he  has 
received, even if the company incurs losses in subsequent years.  
Article 11 
1. A  partner’s  share  in  profits  or  losses  shall  be  proportionate  with  his 
contribution to the capital. However, the company’s articles of incorporation 
may provide otherwise, subject to Sharia. 
2. If a partner’s contribution is solely in the form of work and the company’s 
articles of incorporation do not specify his share in profits or losses, the 
partner’s share in profits and losses shall be proportionate to his equity as 
assessed in the articles of incorporation. In case of multiple partners whose 
equity is in the form of work and is not assessed at the time of incorporation, 
they shall have equal shares in the company’s capital, unless established 
otherwise. If a partner has made, in addition to work, a cash or in-kind 
contribution, he shall have a share in the profits or losses for his work 
contribution and another share for his cash or in-kind contribution.  
Article 12  
Save  for  a  partnership,  a  company’s  articles  of  incorporation  and  any 
amendment thereto shall be in writing; otherwise, they shall be deemed null 
and  void.  Incorporation  of  a  company  and  amendment  of  its  articles  of 
incorporation  upon  satisfaction  of  necessary  requirements  shall  be  in 
accordance with the Law or as determined by the Ministry. 
  5 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
Article 13 
1. A company’s partners, directors or board members, as the case may be, 
shall publish the articles of incorporation and articles of association of a joint-
stock company and any amendments thereto on the Ministry’s website. The 
Ministry may charge a fee for its services relating to the publication of articles 
of incorporation and articles of association and any amendments thereto as 
well as to issuance and authentication of copies of such documents. The 
Ministry shall provide the company with a copy or more of the company’s 
articles  of  incorporation  and  articles  of  association  upon  certification 
indicating publication.  
2. Documents set forth in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be publicly accessible. 
Certified printouts obtained from the Ministry’s website shall be considered 
valid against third parties.  
3. A company’s partners, directors or board members shall, as a result of their 
failure to publish documents set forth in paragraph 1 of this Article, be jointly 
liable for damages incurred by the company, partners or third parties. 
4. Provisions of this Article shall not apply to a partnership. 
Article 14 
1. Except for a partnership, a company shall acquire a legal personality upon 
registration in the commercial register. However, a company shall have a 
legal personality during the incorporation period, to the extent necessary for 
its incorporation, provided the incorporation process is completed.  
2. A joint-stock company’s articles of incorporation and articles of association 
published in accordance with the provisions of the Law shall not be valid 
against third parties until after the company is registered in the commercial 
register. However, if one or more statements of the articles are not published, 
such statements alone shall not be considered valid against third parties.  
Article 15 
1. All contracts, receipts and other documents issued by the company shall 
include its name, type, head office and registration number in the commercial 
register. 
2. In addition to the information stated in paragraph 1 of this Article, any 
company other than unlimited liability company or limited partnership shall 
state the company’s capital and paid amount thereof. 
3. During  the  liquidation  period  of  the  company,  the  statement  “under 
liquidation” shall be added to its name. 
4. Provisions of this Article shall not apply to a partnership.  
Article 16 
Without prejudice to the causes of termination of each type of company, a 
company shall be terminated for any of the following reasons:  
  6 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
a) Expiration of the company’s term, unless extended in accordance with the 
provisions of the Law. 
b) Realization  of  the  purpose  for  which  the  company  is  established,  or 
unfeasibility of realizing such purpose.  
c) Transfer of all contributions or shares to a single partner or shareholder, 
unless  the  partner  or  shareholder  seeks  the  company’s  continuance  in 
accordance with the provisions of the Law. 
d) Agreement of partners to dissolve the company prior to the expiration of its 
term. 
e) Merger of the company with another company. 
f)  Issuance of a final judgment to dissolve or annul the company upon the 
request of one of the partners or stakeholders. Any condition that provides 
for deprivation of such right shall be deemed null and void.  
Part 2: Unlimited Liability Company 
Article 17 
An unlimited liability company is a company of two or more partners with natural 
personality who are jointly and personally liable in all their assets for the 
company’s debts and liabilities. A partner in this company shall acquire the 
capacity of a merchant.  
Article 18 
1. The name of an unlimited liability company shall comprise the names of all 
partners or the name of one or more partners followed by “and partners” or 
a phrase indicating the same meaning. The name shall have an indication 
that an unlimited liability company exists.  
2. If the company’s name includes a name of a non-partner with his knowledge, 
he shall be jointly and personally liable in all his assets for the company’s 
debts and liabilities. The company may, however, retain in its name the name 
of a retired or deceased partner, provided that the retired partner or heirs of 
the deceased partner agree thereto. 
Article 19 
1. Partners’ equity may not take the form of negotiable instruments.  
2. A partner’s equity may not be assigned except upon the consent of all 
partners or subject to the limitations set forth in the company’s articles of 
incorporation. The assignment shall be published in the manner set forth in 
Article 13 of the Law. Any agreement stipulating unrestricted assignment of 
shares shall be deemed null and void. A partner may assign to a third party 
the rights related to his equity, but the effect of such assignment shall be 
  7 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
limited to its parties.  
Article 20 
1. A partner who joins an unlimited liability company shall be jointly liable with 
other partners in all his assets for the company’s past and future debts. 
However, he may be relieved from past debts by virtue of a published 
agreement, in accordance with Article 13 of the Law.  
2. If a partner withdraws from an unlimited liability company or is removed 
therefrom pursuant to a final judgement issued by a competent judicial 
authority,  he  shall  not  be  liable  for  the  company’s  debts  and  liabilities 
incurred after publication of his withdrawal or removal, in accordance with 
Article 13 of the Law. 
3. If a partner assigns his share, he shall not be liable for the debts against 
creditors of the company, unless they object to such assignment within 30 
days following their notification by the company. In case of objection, the 
assignee shall be jointly liable with the assignor for such debts. 
Article 21 
A partner may not be required to pay a company’s debt unless the debt is 
established by virtue of an acknowledgment by its management or pursuant to 
a final judgment or enforcement document, and after the company is duly 
notified and given a reasonable period of time – to be determined by the creditor 
– to pay the debt.  
Article 22 
The company’s director or partners shall, within 30 days from certifying its 
articles of incorporation, request the publication of the articles of incorporation 
as prescribed in the Law, and register the company in the commercial register. 
This provision shall apply to any amendments to the company’s articles of 
incorporation.  
Article 23 
The company’s articles of incorporation shall be signed by all partners, and 
shall specifically include the following: 
a) Company’s name, purpose, head office and branches, if any. 
b) Partners’ names, places of residence, occupations, nationalities and dates 
of birth. 
c) Company’s capital, details of each partner’s equity and its due date. 
d) Names of the company’s directors, if any, and persons authorized to sign on 
behalf of the company, without prejudice to the provisions of Article 25 of the 
Law. 
e) Date of the company’s incorporation and its term. 
  8 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
f)  Commencement and end of the company’s fiscal year.  
Article 24 
A partner may not, without the consent of the other partners, engage for his 
own account or for the account of a third party in an activity similar to that of the 
company. Neither can he be a partner, a director or a board member in a rival 
company, nor a controlling shareholder in another company engaged in the 
same business. If a partner violates this provision, the company may petition 
the competent judicial authority to consider the activities carried out for his own 
benefit as having been carried out for the company’s benefit, and the company 
may, in addition, claim compensation therefrom.  
Article 25  
The partners shall, in the company’s articles of incorporation or in a separate 
contract, appoint one or more directors from among themselves or others. In 
case of multiple directors, where the powers of each are not specified and 
where  there  is  no  provision  denying  each  director  to  solely  manage  the 
company, each director may solely undertake any management act, with the 
other directors having the right to object to such act before completion. In such 
case, the majority vote of directors shall prevail. In case of a tie, the matter shall 
be referred to the partners for a decision in accordance with Article 27 of the 
Law.  
Article 26 
A non-managing partner may not interfere in the management of the company. 
However, a partner, or his designee, shall have access to the company’s 
operations, books and documents at its place of business, and may obtain a 
summary of the company’s financial status, and offer advice to the director. Any 
agreement to the contrary shall be null and void.  
Article 27 
Partners’ resolutions shall be passed by a majority vote, except for resolutions 
related to amendment to the company’s articles of incorporation, which shall be 
passed by unanimous vote of partners, unless stipulated otherwise in the 
company’s articles of incorporation.  
Article 28 
If partners fail to specify the manner in which the company is managed, each 
partner may solely manage the company, provided that other partners have the 
right to object to any act prior to its completion. The majority of partners shall 
have the right to reject such objection. 
Article 29 
The director shall manage the company in accordance with the company’s 
  9 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
purposes, and represent it before courts, arbitration tribunals and third parties, 
unless the company’s articles of incorporation explicitly restrict his authority. In 
all cases, acts carried out by the director on behalf of the company and within 
its purposes shall be binding on the company, unless such acts involve a party 
acting in bad faith.  
Article 30 
The director may not carry out any acts beyond the company’s purposes, 
except pursuant to a decision by the partners or an explicit provision in the 
company’s articles of incorporation. This restriction shall specifically apply to 
the following acts: 
a) Making donations, except for small, regular donations. 
b) Binding the company to act as a guarantor to a third party.  
c) Resorting to arbitration. 
d) Conciliation regarding the company’s rights.  
e) Selling or pledging the company’s real property, unless the sale falls within 
the company’s purposes.  
f)  Selling or pledging the company’s place of business (store). 
Article 31 
A director may not conclude an agreement with the company for his own 
benefit, except with the partners’ permission on a case-by-case basis. The 
director may not engage in any activity similar to that of the company; be a 
partner, director or board member of a rival company; nor be a controlling 
shareholder in a company engaging in the same business, except with the 
consent of all partners. If the director fails to comply with this obligation, the 
company may claim compensation therefrom.  
Article 32 
The director shall be liable for damages sustained by the company, partners or 
third parties as a result of his violation of the provisions of the company’s articles 
of incorporation, or as a result of any negligence or omission in the performance 
of his duties. Any agreement to the contrary shall be deemed null and void.  
Article 33 
1. If the director is a managing partner as stated in the company’s articles of 
incorporation, he may not be removed from his position except pursuant to 
a decision by the competent judicial authority upon the request of the majority 
of partners. Any agreement to the contrary shall be deemed null and void. 
The removal of the director in the above case shall result in the dissolution 
of the company, unless the company’s articles of incorporation stipulate 
otherwise.  
2. If the director is a managing partner appointed in a separate contract or if he 
  10 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
is a non-partner appointed either in the company’s articles of incorporation 
or in a separate contract, he may be removed pursuant to a decision by the 
partners. His removal shall not result in the dissolution of the company.  
Article 34 
1. If the director is a managing partner appointed in the company’s articles of 
incorporation, he may not resign except for acceptable reasons. Otherwise, 
he shall be liable for damages. His resignation shall result in the dissolution 
of the company, unless the company’s articles of incorporation stipulate 
otherwise. 
2. A non-partner director appointed in the company’s articles of incorporation 
may resign only at an appropriate time and upon notification of the partners 
within a reasonable period prior to the effective date of his resignation. 
Otherwise, he shall be liable for damages. Such resignation shall not result 
in  the  dissolution  of  the  company,  unless  the  company’s  articles  of 
incorporation stipulate otherwise.  
3. If the director, whether a partner or non-partner, is appointed in a separate 
contract, he may resign only at an appropriate time and upon notification to 
the partners within a reasonable period prior to the effective date of such 
resignation. Otherwise, he shall be liable for damages. Such resignation 
shall not result in the dissolution of the company.  
Article 35 
1. Profits and losses and the share of each partner in such profits and losses 
shall be determined at the end of the company’s fiscal year on the basis of 
the financial statements prepared in accordance with recognized accounting 
standards, and audited by a licensed external auditor in accordance with 
recognized auditing standards.  
2. Each partner shall be considered a creditor of the company for his share in 
the profits upon determination of such share. 
3. Any shortfall in the company’s capital as a result of losses shall be made up 
out of the profits of subsequent years. In other cases, a partner may not be 
compelled to make up for any shortfall of his share in the capital due to such 
losses without his consent. 
Article 36 
1. A partner may not withdraw from a company set up for a definite period, 
except for a reason acceptable to the competent judicial authority. If the 
company is set up for an indefinite period, the partner’s withdrawal shall be 
in good faith and said partner shall notify the other partners in a timely 
manner. Otherwise, the competent judicial authority may order him to remain 
as a partner, and pay damages if necessary.  
2. A majority of partners may petition the competent judicial authority to remove 
one or more partners from the company for valid reasons. In such case, the 
  11 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
competent  judicial  authority  may  decide  continuation  of  the  company 
following removal of such partner(s) if such act is deemed to have no effect 
on the company, the remaining partners and third parties. If the judicial 
authority, upon reviewing the petition for removing a partner, finds that the 
continuation of the company is not possible, it may decide to dissolve the 
company.  
Article 37 
1. An  unlimited  liability  company  shall  terminate  by  a  partner’s  death, 
interdiction,  declaration  of  bankruptcy,  insolvency  or  withdrawal.  The 
company’s articles of incorporation may stipulate that, if a partner dies, the 
company shall continue to exist with interested heirs even if they are minors 
or barred by law from practicing business, provided that liability of heirs, who 
are minors or barred by law from practicing business, for the company’s 
debts is limited to their inherited share in the company’s capital. In such case, 
the company shall, within a period not exceeding one year from the death of 
the partner, be transformed into a limited partnership where a minor or a 
partner barred by law from practicing business becomes a limited partner. 
Otherwise; the company shall be deemed legally terminated, unless the 
minor reaches the age of maturity or the reason for barring the partner from 
engaging in business ceases to exist during this period.  
2. The articles of incorporation of an unlimited liability company may provide 
that,  upon  a  partner’s  death,  interdiction,  declaration  of  bankruptcy, 
insolvency  or  withdrawal,  the  company  shall  continue  to  exist  among 
remaining partners. In this case, such partner or his heirs shall have only 
their  share  in  the  company’s  assets.  Such  share  shall  be  determined 
pursuant to a report prepared by an accredited valuer indicating the fair value 
of each partner’s share in the company’s assets at the date of a partner’s 
disassociation, unless the articles of incorporation stipulate, or partners 
agree, to a different method for determining the value of such share. The 
partner or his heirs shall not have a share in any subsequent rights, unless 
such rights arose from previous transactions.  
Part 3: Limited Partnership 
Article 38 
1. A limited partnership comprises two types of partners, one of which includes 
at least one partner who is jointly liable in all his assets for the company’s 
debts and liabilities (general partner(s)), and the other type includes at least 
one  partner  whose  liability  is  limited  to  the  value  of  his  share  in  the 
partnership’s capital (limited partner(s)). A limited partner shall not acquire 
the capacity of merchant.  
2. General partners shall be subject to provisions applicable to partners in an 
unlimited liability company. 
  12 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
3. Where this Part is silent, provisions of the unlimited liability company shall 
apply to limited partnership. 
Article 39 
1. The name of a limited partnership shall comprise the names of all general 
partners, or the name of one or more of the general partners followed by 
“and partners” or a phrase indicating the same meaning. The name shall 
have an indication that a limited partnership exists.  
2. If the limited partnership’s name includes the name of a limited partner or a 
non-partner with his knowledge of the same, he shall be considered a 
general partner towards bona fide third parties who conduct business with 
the partnership on this basis.  
Article 40 
A limited partner may not interfere in the limited partnership’s business with 
others, even with a power of attorney; otherwise, he shall be jointly liable in all 
his  assets  for  the  partnership’s  debts  and  liabilities  arising  from  such 
interference. If the limited partner’s interference causes a third party to believe 
that such partner is a general partner, he shall be considered jointly liable in all 
his personal assets towards such third party for the partnership’s debts. A 
limited partner may participate in the limited partnership’s internal management 
in accordance with its articles of incorporation, without any liability on his part.  
Article 41 
A limited partner may assign his share to any other partner in the limited 
partnership. He may also assign his share to a third party upon the consent of 
all general partners as well as limited partners owning a majority share in the 
limited partners’ capital, unless the limited partnership’s articles of incorporation 
stipulate otherwise.  
Article 42 
A  limited  partnership  shall  not  terminate  upon  the  death,  interdiction, 
declaration of bankruptcy, insolvency or withdrawal of a limited partner, unless 
its articles of incorporation stipulate otherwise.  
Part 4: Partnership 
Article 43 
A partnership is a company that is not legally disclosed to third parties; does 
not enjoy legal personality; is not subject to publication procedures, nor is 
registered in the commercial register.  
  13 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
Article 44 
A partnership may be established by any means of proof.  
Article 45 
The contract establishing a partnership shall specify its purpose, partners’ rights 
and obligations, management, distribution of profit and loss, and other terms.  
Article 46 
No additional partners may join the partnership without the  consent of all 
partners, unless the contract establishing the partnership stipulates otherwise.  
Article 47 
A partnership may not issue negotiable instruments.  
Article 48 
A third party shall have recourse only against the partner with whom he dealt. 
If the partners act in a way that reveals to a third party the existence of a 
partnership, said partnership shall be deemed a de facto unlimited liability 
company for such third party, without prejudice to the validity of the partnership 
contract terms relating to partners. 
Article 49 
1. A partner in a partnership shall continue to be the owner of his share, unless 
the partners agree otherwise. 
2. If the share is in-kind and the partner possessing such share is declared 
bankrupt, the owner of such share may recover the same from bankruptcy 
settlement upon payment of his share of the partnership’s losses. 
3. If the share is in the form of cash or fungibles, the owner thereof shall 
participate in the bankruptcy settlement as a creditor for the value of such 
share, minus his share in the partnership’s losses. 
Article 50 
A partnership shall terminate upon a partner’s death, interdiction, declaration of 
bankruptcy,  insolvency  or  withdrawal,  unless  the  contract  establishing  the 
partnership stipulates the continuation of the partnership between remaining 
partners.  
Article 51 
A partnership shall be subject to the provisions of Articles 24, 27 and 35 relating 
to unlimited liability company.  
  14 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
Part 5: Joint-Stock Company 
Chapter 1: General Provisions 
Article 52 
The capital of a joint-stock company shall be divided into negotiable shares of 
equal value. A joint-stock company shall be solely liable for debts and liabilities 
arising from its activities.  
Article 53 
A joint-stock company shall have a name indicating its purpose. Such name 
may not include the name of a natural person, unless the company’s purpose 
is to utilize a patent registered in the name of such person; the company 
acquires a commercial entity and adopts its name; or the name is the name of 
a company transformed into a joint-stock company whose name includes the 
name of a natural person. If the company is owned by one person, the name 
shall indicate that it is a joint-stock company owned by one person.   
Article 54 
Upon incorporation, the capital of a joint-stock company shall be sufficient to 
achieve its purposes. In all cases, the company’s capital may not be less than 
500,000 riyals. The paid-in capital upon incorporation shall not be less than one 
quarter. 
Article 55 
Notwithstanding Article 2 of the Law, the State, public legal persons, companies 
wholly owned by the State and companies whose capital is not less than five 
million riyals may incorporate a joint-stock company of one person. Such 
person shall have the powers of the shareholders assemblies, including the 
incorporation assembly and powers thereof.  
Chapter 2: Incorporation of a Joint-Stock Company 
Article 56 
An incorporator of a company shall be any person who signs the company’s 
articles of incorporation, applies for a license for incorporation, offers in-kind 
contribution upon its incorporation or participates in the incorporation with the 
intention  to  become  an  incorporator.  An  incorporator  who  offers  in-kind 
contribution shall be responsible for the accuracy of the valuation of his share. 
  15 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
Article 57 
An application for incorporation of a company signed by the applicant(s) shall 
be filed with the Ministry and attached with the articles of incorporation and 
articles of association.  
Article 58 
If  the  incorporators  do  not  limit  subscription  to  all  company’s  shares  to 
themselves, they shall offer for subscription the shares they did not subscribe 
to, in accordance with the Capital Market Law.  
Article 59 
The paid amount of shares subscribed to shall be deposited with a licensed 
bank in the Kingdom in a company-under-incorporation account. Only the board 
of directors shall have the power to disburse from such amount after the 
announcement of the company’s incorporation. 
Article 60 
A license incorporating a joint-stock company shall be pursuant to a decision 
issued by the Ministry, including companies wholly or partially incorporated by 
the State or other public legal persons. If the company’s business requires an 
approval  or  authorization  from  the  relevant  agency  prior  to  licensing  its 
incorporation, the decision to license the company’s incorporation shall be 
issued only after obtaining such approval or authorization. 
The company may not commence its activities except upon the completion of 
incorporation procedures and obtaining the final license from the relevant 
agency, if any.  
If the application for incorporating a joint-stock company, which is wholly or 
partially incorporated by the State or other public legal persons, includes a 
request for exemption from certain provisions of the Law, such application shall 
be submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval.  
Article 61 
In case of in-kind shares, the application for incorporation shall be accompanied 
with a report by an expert or accredited valuer (or more), including an estimate 
of the fair value of such shares.  
Incorporators shall deposit a copy of the valuation report of in-kind shares at 
the  company’s  head  office  at  least  15  days  prior  to  the  meeting  of  the 
incorporation assembly. Such report shall be made available to stakeholders.  
The report shall be submitted to the incorporation assembly for deliberation. If 
the assembly resolves to reduce the value of in-kind shares, such reduction 
shall be approved by the in-kind contributors during the meeting. If they refuse 
to accept the reduction, the company’s articles of incorporation shall be deemed 
null and void for all parties.  
  16 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
Article 62 
1. Incorporators shall call all subscribers to an incorporation assembly meeting, 
to be held within 45 days from the date of the Ministry’s decision approving 
the incorporation of a closed joint-stock company or from the date of closing 
subscription in the shares of a public joint-stock company, in accordance with 
the company’s articles of association, provided that the period between the 
date of the call for meeting and date of the meeting is not less than 3 days 
for closed joint-stock companies and not less than 10 days for public joint-
stock companies.  
2. A  subscriber  shall  have  the  right  to  attend  the  incorporation  assembly 
meeting regardless of the number of his shares. The meeting shall be valid 
only if attended by a number of subscribers representing at least one half of 
the company’s capital. If such quorum is not achieved, a call shall be made 
for a second meeting to be held at least 15 days after the date of the call. 
The second meeting may, however, be held one hour after the expiry of the 
period prescribed for holding the first meeting. The call for the first meeting 
shall indicate the possibility of holding a second meeting. In all cases, the 
second meeting shall be valid regardless of the number of subscribers 
represented therein.  
3. The incorporation assembly shall elect its chairman, secretary and vote 
counter. Decisions of the incorporation assembly shall be passed by an 
absolute majority of shares represented therein. The minutes of the meeting 
shall be signed by the assembly’s chairman, secretary and vote counter, and 
a copy thereof shall be sent to the Ministry and to CMA if the company is a 
public joint-stock company. 
Article 63 
The incorporation assembly shall have the following powers:  
a) Ensure  that  all  company’s  shares  have  been  subscribed,  and  that  the 
minimum capital is paid to the extent of the due amount of the share value 
in accordance with the Law.  
b) Discuss the report on the valuation of in-kind shares.  
c) Approve the final version of the company’s articles of association, provided 
that no substantive amendments are made thereto except with the approval 
of all subscribers represented in the company.  
d) Appoint members of the first board of directors for a term not exceeding 5 
years and the first auditor, if they have not been appointed in the company’s 
articles of incorporation or articles of association.  
e) Discuss and approve the incorporators’ report on the activities and expenses 
required for the incorporation of the company.  
The  Ministry,  and  CMA  in  the  case  of  public  joint-stock  companies,  may 
delegate  one  representative  (or  more)  as  an  observer  to  attend  the 
incorporation assembly meeting to ensure implementation of the provisions of 
the Law. 
  17 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
Article 64 
Incorporators  shall,  within  15  days  as  of  the  date  of  conclusion  of  the 
incorporation  assembly  meeting,  submit  an  application  to  the  Ministry 
requesting announcement of the incorporation of the company, accompanied 
by the following documents:  
a) A statement that the company’s shares are subscribed in full, showing the 
amount paid by subscribers of the value of shares. 
b) Meeting minutes and resolutions of the incorporation assembly.  
c) The company’s articles of association as approved by the incorporation 
assembly. 
Article 65 
1. The Ministry shall issue a decision announcing the company’s incorporation, 
upon verifying the completion of all requirements set forth in the Law for the 
incorporation of a joint-stock company. Such decision shall be published on 
the Ministry’s website.  
2. Board members shall, within 15 days from the date of issuance of the 
decision provided for in paragraph 1 of this Article, apply for registration of 
the company in the commercial register. Such registration shall contain the 
following: 
a) Company’s name, purpose, head office and term. 
b) Incorporators’ names, places of residence, occupations and nationalities.  
c) Type, value and number of shares, as well as amount of paid-in capital.  
d) Number and date of the Ministry’s decision authorizing the company’s 
incorporation. 
e) Number and date of the Ministry’s decision announcing the company’s 
incorporation.  
Article 66 
1. The company shall be considered duly incorporated upon publishing the 
Ministry’s  decision  announcing  the  company’s  incorporation  and  upon 
registration in the commercial register. Any subsequent action to invalidate 
the company for violation of the provisions of the Law or provisions of the 
company’s articles of incorporation or articles of association shall not be 
heard.  
2. Publication of the decision announcing the company’s incorporation as well 
as its registration in the commercial register shall entail the transfer of all 
transactions carried out by incorporators on behalf of the company to the 
company, and the company shall bear all incorporation expenses incurred 
by incorporators.  
  18 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
Article 67 
If  the company is not incorporated in the manner prescribed in the Law, 
subscribers may recover amounts paid, and the banks where subscription is 
made shall promptly refund the paid amount to each subscriber. Incorporators 
shall be jointly liable for fulfillment of this obligation and pay damages, if 
necessary.  Incorporators  shall  also  bear  all  expenses  incurred  in  the 
incorporation of the company, and shall be jointly liable to third parties for acts 
performed by them during incorporation period.  
Chapter 3: Management of a Joint-Stock Company 
Section 1: Board of Directors 
Article 68 
1. A joint-stock company shall be managed by a board of directors whose 
number shall be specified in the company’s articles of association, provided 
that the number is not less than 3 and not more than 11.  
2. Each shareholder shall be entitled to nominate himself or one or more other 
persons for board membership, based on his share in the capital. 
3. The ordinary general assembly shall elect board members for the term 
prescribed in the company’s articles of association, provided that such term 
does not exceed 3 years. Board members may be re-elected, unless the 
company’s articles of association stipulate otherwise. The company’s articles 
of  association  shall  specify  the  manner  of  membership  expiration  or 
termination upon the request of the board of directors. The general assembly 
may, at any time, remove all or some of the members even if the company’s 
articles of association provide otherwise, without prejudice to the right of the 
removed member to claim compensation from the company if the removal is 
made without acceptable justification or at an inappropriate time. A board 
member  may  resign,  provided  that  such  resignation  is  made  at  an 
appropriate time. Otherwise, he shall be liable towards the company for 
damages caused by such resignation.  
Article 69 
If the chairman and members of the board of directors of a joint-stock company 
submit their resignations, or if the general assembly fails to elect a board of 
directors, the Minister, or CMA’s Board in the case of listed companies, shall 
form an interim committee of competent persons and determine the number of 
members thereof, and shall appoint a chairman and vice-chairman from among 
its members. Such committee shall oversee the management of the company 
and call for a general assembly meeting within a period not exceeding three 
months from the date of forming said committee to elect a new board of 
directors for the company. Chairman and members of the committee shall be 
remunerated by the company pursuant to a decision by the Minister or CMA’s 
  19 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
Board, as the case may be.  
Article 70 
1. Unless  the  company’s  articles  of  association  stipulate  otherwise,  if  the 
position of a member becomes vacant, the board of directors may appoint a 
member to temporarily fill the vacancy, according to the order of the number 
of  votes  received  by  each  candidate,  provided  that  such  member  is a 
competent person. Such appointment shall be reported to the Ministry, and 
CMA in the case of a listed company, within five working days from the date 
of appointment. The appointment shall be referred to the ordinary general 
assembly in its first meeting. The new member shall complete the term of his 
predecessor.  
2. If the board of directors fails to convene due to not satisfying the minimum 
number of members as prescribed in the Law or the company’s articles of 
association, the existing members shall call for an ordinary general assembly 
meeting within 60 days in order to elect the required number of members.  
Article 71  
1. A board member may not have any direct or indirect interest in transactions 
or contracts made for the company, except with a prior authorization from 
the ordinary general assembly and subject to rules set by the competent 
authority. The board member shall notify the board of directors of any direct 
or indirect interest he may have in the transactions or contracts made for the 
company. Such notification shall be recorded in the minutes of the board 
meeting. Said member may not participate in voting on the resolution to be 
issued  on  this  matter  by  the  board  of  directors  and  the  assembly  of 
shareholders. The chairman of the board shall inform the general assembly, 
when it convenes, of transactions and contracts in which a board member 
has a direct or indirect interest, providing a special report from the company’s 
external auditor.  
2. If a board member fails to disclose his interest as provided for in paragraph 
1 of this Article, the company or any stakeholder may petition the competent 
judicial authority to invalidate the contract or obligate the member to return 
any profit or benefit realized therefrom.  
3. Liability for damages arising from the transactions and contracts referred to 
in paragraph (1) of this Article shall fall upon the member having interest in 
such transactions or contracts as well as the other board members, if such 
transactions or contracts are in violation of said paragraph, or they are 
established to be unfair, or they involve conflict of interest, or incur damage 
to shareholders. 
4. Board members objecting to the resolution shall be exempted from liability if 
their objection is explicitly recorded in the minutes of the meeting. Non-
attendance of the meeting in which the resolution is issued shall not entail 
exemption from liability unless it is established that the absent member had 
no knowledge of said resolution or was not able to object to it after knowledge 
  20 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
thereof. 
Article 72  
A board member may not engage in any act or business that may compete with 
the company. Otherwise, the company shall have the right to petition the 
competent  judicial  authority  to  claim  appropriate  damages,  unless  such 
member has a prior authorization from the ordinary general assembly, subject 
to rules set by the competent authority. 
Article 73 
1. A joint-stock company may not grant any loan whatsoever to any of its board 
members or shareholders, nor provide guarantee for any loan agreement 
they conclude with a third party.  
2. Notwithstanding  paragraph  1  of  this  Article,  banks  and  other  credit 
companies may, within their purposes and subject to the same terms and 
conditions followed with other clients, grant loans or extend credit to any of 
its  board  members  or  shareholders,  or  provide  a  guarantee  for  loan 
agreements they conclude with third parties. 
3. Loans and guarantees granted by the company according to its employee 
incentive programs, which are approved in accordance with the provisions 
of the company’s articles of association or pursuant to a decision by the 
ordinary general assembly, shall also be exempted from the provision of 
paragraph 1 of this Article. 
4. Any contract concluded in violation of the provisions of this Article shall be 
considered null and void, and the company shall have the right to seek 
compensation  before  the  competent  judicial authority  for  any  sustained 
damages.  
Article 74 
Board members may not disclose the company’s confidential information they 
are privy to outside the meetings of the general assembly. They may not use 
information they have access to due to their membership to gain personal 
interest for themselves, their relatives or others. Otherwise, they shall be 
removed from the board and held liable for damages. 
Article 75 
1. Without prejudice to the powers of the general assembly, the board of 
directors shall have full powers to manage the company in a manner that 
serves its purposes, except for powers entrusted to the general assembly 
pursuant to a special provision in the Law or in the company’s articles of 
association. The board may, within its powers, authorize one or more of its 
members or others to perform certain acts. 
2. The board shall have the right to enter into loan agreements, regardless of 
their  terms,  or  sell  or  pledge  the  company’s  assets  including  place  of 
  21 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
business, or relieve the company’s debtors from liability, unless such powers 
are restricted by the company’s articles of association or by decision of the 
ordinary general assembly.  
Article 76 
1. The  company’s  articles  of  association  shall  specify  the  manner  of 
remunerating board members. Such remuneration may take the form of a 
fixed amount, a certain amount per meeting attended, in-kind benefits, a 
percentage of the net profit, or a combination thereof. 
2. If remuneration is a percentage of the profit, it shall not exceed l0% of the 
net profit, after deduction of reserves determined by the general assembly 
pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  the  Law  or  the  company’s  articles  of 
association, and after distribution of a dividend of not less than 5% of the 
company’s paid-in capital. A member’s remuneration shall be proportionate 
with the number of meetings attended. Any remuneration made in violation 
of this provision shall be null and void. 
3. In  all  cases,  the  total  amount  of  remuneration  received  by  a  member, 
whether financial or otherwise, shall not exceed 500,000 riyals annually, in 
accordance with the rules prescribed by the Competent Authority.  
4. The board report submitted to the ordinary general assembly shall include a 
detailed statement of all amounts received by board members during the 
fiscal year, including remuneration, expenses and other benefits. The report 
shall also include amounts received by board members in their capacity as 
employees or executives, or in consideration of technical, administrative or 
consultative services. It shall also include a statement of the number of board 
meetings and number of meetings attended by each member from the date 
of the last general assembly meeting.  
5. The general assembly may, upon a recommendation by the board, terminate 
the membership of any member who fails to attend three consecutive board 
meetings without a legitimate reason.  
Article 77 
The company shall be bound by all acts performed by the board, even if such 
acts exceed the powers of the board, unless the stakeholder is acting in bad 
faith or knows that such acts exceed the powers of the board. 
Article 78 
1. Board  members  shall  be  jointly  liable  for  damages  sustained  by  the 
company, shareholders or third parties resulting from their mismanagement 
of  the  company,  or  their  violation  of  the  provisions  of  the  Law  or  the 
company’s  articles  of  association.  Any  condition  to  the  contrary  of  this 
provision shall be considered null and void. All board members shall be liable 
if a wrongful act results from a resolution unanimously issued thereby. As for 
resolutions issued by a majority vote, dissenting members shall not be liable 
therefor if their objection is explicitly recorded in the minutes of the meeting. 
  22 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
Absence from the meeting at which such resolution is adopted shall not 
constitute cause for relief from liability, unless it is established that the 
absentee is not aware of the resolution, or is unable to object to it after 
becoming aware of such resolution.  
2. Approval of the ordinary general assembly to relieve board members from 
liability shall not preclude the filing of a liability suit.  
3. A liability suit shall not be heard after the lapse of three years from the date 
of discovering the wrongful act. Except for fraud and forgery, a liability suit 
shall not be heard after the lapse of five years from the end of the fiscal year 
in which the wrongful act was committed, or three years from the expiration 
of membership term of the concerned member, whichever is later.  
Article 79 
The company may file a liability suit against board members for wrongful acts 
that may harm shareholders. The decision to file this suit is vested in the 
ordinary general assembly, which shall designate a representative on behalf of 
the company to pursue the suit. If the company is declared bankrupt, the right 
to file said suit shall be vested in the bankruptcy trustee. In case the company 
is liquidated, the suit shall be pursued by the liquidator upon obtaining the 
approval of the ordinary general assembly.  
Article 80 
Each  shareholder  shall  have  the  right  to  file  a  liability  suit  against  board 
members for any wrongful act that causes harm to him. The shareholder may 
file such suit only if the company’s right to file the same is still valid. The 
shareholder shall notify the company of his intention to file such suit, and his 
right to compensation shall be limited to the damage sustained by him.  
Article 80 (bis) 
The  company  may  be  compelled  to  bear  the  expenses  incurred  by  the 
shareholder in the filling of a lawsuit regardless of its outcome, subject to the 
following:  
a) If he files the lawsuit in good faith. 
b) If he submits to the company the lawsuit's cause of action and does not 
receive a response within 30 days. 
c) If filing such lawsuit is in the interest of the company, according to Article 79 
of the Law. 
d) If the lawsuit is based on sound grounds. 
Article 81 
1. Subject to the provisions of the company’s articles of association, the board 
shall appoint, from among its members, a chairman and vice-chairman and 
may appoint a managing director. A member may not combine the position 
  23 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
of a chairman and any other executive position. The company’s articles of 
association shall specify the powers and remuneration of the chairman of the 
board and the managing director as well as the  remuneration of board 
members. 
2. If the company’s articles of association do not stipulate the provisions set 
forth in paragraph 1 of this Article, the board shall assign powers and specify 
remuneration.  
3. The board shall appoint a secretary, from among its members or others, and 
determine  his  duties  and  remuneration,  if  the  company’s  articles  of 
association do not stipulate any provisions in this regard.  
4. The terms of the chairman, vice-chairman, managing director and secretary, 
who is a board member, may not exceed the term of their memberships in 
the board, and they may be re-elected unless the company’s articles of 
association stipulate otherwise. The board may, at any time, remove all or 
some of them, without prejudice to their right to damages if such removal is 
made without a valid reason or at an inappropriate time.  
Article 82 
1. The chairman of the board shall represent the company before courts, 
arbitration tribunals and third parties. The chairman may also delegate some 
of his powers to board members or others to carry out specific tasks.  
2. The vice-chairman shall replace the chairman in his absence.  
Article 83 
1. The board shall convene at least twice a year upon a call of its chairman as 
prescribed in the company’s articles of association. Notwithstanding any 
conflicting provision in the company’s articles of association, the chairman 
shall call for a board meeting upon the request of two members.  
2. A board meeting shall not be valid unless attended by at least one half of the 
members, provided that the number of attending members is not less than 
three, unless the company’s articles of association stipulate otherwise.  
3. A board member may not assign others to attend the meeting on his behalf. 
He  may,  however,  assign  another  board  member  if  permitted  by  the 
company’s articles of association.  
4. Board  resolutions  shall  be  passed  by  a  majority  vote  of  attending  or 
represented members. In case of a tie, the meeting chairman shall have the 
casting  vote,  unless  the  company’s  articles  of  association  stipulate 
otherwise.  
Article 84 
The board may issue resolutions on urgent matters by circulation, unless a 
member requests in writing that the board convenes for deliberation. Such 
resolutions shall be presented to the board at the next meeting.  
  24 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
Article 85 
Board deliberations and resolutions shall be recorded in minutes signed by the 
meeting chairman, attending members and secretary. Such minutes shall be 
entered in a special register signed by the chairman and secretary. 
Section 2: Shareholder Assemblies 
Article 86 
1. Meetings of the shareholder general assembly shall be headed by the 
chairman, or vice-chairman in case of absence of the chairman, or any 
member designated by the board in the absence of both the chairman and 
vice-chairman.  
2. Each shareholder shall have the right to attend meetings of the shareholder 
general assembly, even if the company’s articles of association stipulate 
otherwise. A shareholder may assign another person other than a board 
member or a company’s employee to attend the general assembly meeting. 
3. Shareholder  general  assembly  meetings  and  shareholders’  participation 
therein and voting on its resolutions may be done by means of modern 
technology, in accordance with rules set by the Competent Authority.  
4. The Ministry, and CMA in the case of a listed company, may assign one or 
more representatives to attend general assembly meetings of companies as 
observers to ensure compliance with the provisions of the Law.  
Article 87 
Except for matters within the powers of the extraordinary general assembly, the 
ordinary general assembly shall have powers over all other company matters, 
and shall convene at least once a year within six months following the end of 
the company’s fiscal year. The ordinary general assembly may, however, 
convene when necessary.  
Article 88 
1. The extraordinary general assembly shall have the power to amend the 
company’s articles of association, except for the following:  
a) Depriving  a  shareholder  of  his  fundamental  rights  derived  from  his 
capacity as a partner or making any amendment thereto, particularly the 
following:  
i.  Obtaining a share of distributed dividends, whether in cash or by issuing 
bonus  shares  to  other  than  the  employees  of  the  company  or  its 
subsidiaries.  
ii.  Obtaining a share of the company’s assets upon liquidation. 
iii.  Attending general or special assembly meetings, participating in the 
deliberations and voting on resolutions.  
  25 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
iv.  Disposing of his shares in accordance with the Law. 
v.  Requesting access to the company’s books and documents, monitoring 
board  actions,  filing  a  liability  suit  against  board  members  and 
challenging the validity of resolutions of general or special assembly 
meetings. 
vi.  Having  a  preemptive  right  in  new  shares  issued  against  cash 
contribution,  unless  the  company’s  articles  of  association  stipulate 
otherwise.  
b) Amendments  resulting  in  an  increase  in  the  financial  obligations  of 
shareholders, unless approved by all shareholders.  
c) Moving the company’s head office outside the Kingdom. 
d) Changing the nationality of the company.  
2. The extraordinary general assembly may, in addition to its powers, issue 
resolutions on matters within the powers of the ordinary general assembly 
with the same terms and conditions prescribed for the latter.  
Article 89 
If a resolution issued by the ordinary general assembly entails the amendment 
of the rights of a certain class of shareholders, such resolution shall not be valid 
unless approved by those entitled to vote from among shareholders of such 
class,  at  a  special  meeting  convened  in  accordance  with  the  provisions 
applicable to the extraordinary general assembly.  
Article 90 
1. The general or special assemblies of shareholders shall convene pursuant 
to a call by the board of directors as prescribed by the company’s articles of 
association.  The  board  of  directors  shall  call  for  an  ordinary  general 
assembly meeting if so requested by the auditor, the audit committee or by 
a number of shareholders representing at least 5% of the capital. The auditor 
may call for a general assembly meeting if the board fails to do so within 30 
days from the date of the auditor’s request.  
2. The Competent Authority may call for an ordinary general assembly meeting 
in the following cases:  
a) Expiration of the period specified for meeting, as stipulated in Article 87 of 
the Law. 
b) Failure  of  the  board  of  directors  to  satisfy  the  minimum  number  of 
members, without prejudice to Article 69 of the Law. 
c) Violation  of  the  provisions  of  the  Law  or  the  company’s  articles  of 
association, or mismanagement of the company. 
d) Failure of the board of directors to call for an ordinary general assembly 
meeting within 15 days from the date of the request by the auditor, audit 
committee or a number of shareholders representing at least 5% of the 
  26 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
capital. 
3. Shareholders representing at least 2% of the capital may submit a request 
to the Competent Authority to call for an ordinary general assembly meeting 
if any of the cases provided for in paragraph 2 of this Article exist. The 
Competent Authority shall call for such meeting within 30 days from the date 
of the shareholders’ request, provided that such call includes the meeting 
agenda and items to be approved by shareholders.  
Article 91  
The  call  for  the  general  assembly  meeting  shall  be  published  in  a  daily 
newspaper distributed in the region where the head office of the company is 
located, at least 21 days prior to the date set for the meeting. However, a call 
sent by registered mail at the said date shall suffice. A copy of the call and the 
agenda shall be sent to the Ministry, and to CMA in the case of a listed 
company, within the period specified for publication. 
Article 92 
Shareholders desiring to attend a general or special assembly meeting shall 
register their names at the head office of the company prior to the meeting, 
unless the company’s articles of association stipulate otherwise.  
Article 93 
1. The ordinary general assembly meeting shall be valid only if attended by 
shareholders representing at least 25% of the company’s capital unless the 
company’s articles of association provide for a higher percentage, provided 
that such percentage does not exceed 50% of the capital.  
2. If the quorum necessary for an ordinary general assembly is not obtained in 
accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article, a call shall be sent for a second 
meeting to be held within 30 days following the first meeting. This call shall 
be published in the manner prescribed in Article 91 of the Law. The second 
meeting may be held one hour after the end of the period set for the first 
meeting, if permissible under the company’s articles of association and the 
call for the first meeting provides for the possibility of holding a second 
meeting. In all cases, the second meeting shall be valid regardless of the 
number of shares represented therein.  
3. Resolutions of the ordinary general assembly shall be passed by an absolute 
majority  vote  of  the  shares  represented  therein,  unless  the  company’s 
articles of association provide for a higher percentage.  
Article 94 
1. An extraordinary general assembly meeting shall be valid only if attended by 
shareholders representing at least 50% of the company’s capital, unless the 
company’s articles of association provide for a higher percentage, provided 
that such percentage does not exceed two thirds of the capital.  
  27 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
2. If the quorum necessary for an extraordinary general assembly meeting is 
not obtained in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article, a call shall be 
made for a second meeting to be held as prescribed in Article 91 of the Law. 
However, the second meeting may be held one hour after the end of the 
period set for the first meeting, provided that the call for the first meeting 
indicates the possibility of holding a second meeting. In all cases, the second 
meeting shall be valid if attended by a number of shareholders representing 
at least 25% of the capital. 
3. If the necessary quorum is not obtained in the second meeting, a call shall 
be made for a third meeting to be held as prescribed in Article 91 of the Law. 
The  third  meeting  shall  be  valid,  regardless  of  the  number  of  shares 
represented therein, upon the approval of the Competent Authority.  
4. Resolutions of an extraordinary general assembly meeting shall be passed 
by  a  two-third  majority  vote of  shares  represented  therein.  Resolutions 
pertaining to an increase or decrease of capital, extension of the term of the 
company, dissolution of the company prior to the expiry of the term set forth 
in its articles of association, or merger with another company, shall be valid 
if adopted by a three-quarter majority vote of shares represented at the 
meeting.  
5. The board of directors shall, in accordance with the provisions of Article 65 
of the Law, publish the resolutions issued by the extraordinary general 
assembly  if  they  include  an  amendment  of  the  company’s  articles  of 
association.  
Article 95 
1. The company’s articles of association shall prescribe the manner of voting 
at shareholder assemblies. Cumulative voting shall be used for electing the 
board of directors. The voting right per share may not be used more than 
once.  
2. Members of the board of directors may not participate in voting on general 
assembly resolutions pertaining to their relief from liability for management 
of the company or pertaining to their direct or indirect interest.  
Article 96 
Each shareholder shall have the right to discuss items listed on the agenda of 
the general assembly and address relevant questions to board members and 
the  auditor.  Any  provision  to  the  contrary  in  the  company’s  articles  of 
association shall be deemed null and void. The board of directors or the auditor 
shall answer shareholders’ questions to the extent that does not jeopardize the 
company.  If  the  shareholder  deems  that  the  response  to  a  question  is 
unsatisfactory, he may appeal to the general assembly whose decision shall be 
final.  
Article 97 
Minutes  shall  be  made  for  each  general  assembly  meeting,  showing  the 
  28 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
number of shareholders present or represented therein, number of shares held 
by each, whether personally or by proxy, number of votes allotted thereto, 
resolutions  adopted,  number  of  consenting  and  dissenting  votes  and  a 
summary of meeting deliberations. Following every meeting, the minutes shall 
be entered in a special register signed by the chairman of the assembly, the 
secretary of the assembly and the vote counter.  
Article 98 
Subscription in shares or acquisition thereof shall imply that the shareholder 
accepts the company’s articles of association and abides by resolutions issued 
at shareholder assemblies in accordance with the provisions of the Law and the 
company’s articles of association, whether he is present or absent, and whether 
he agrees or disagrees with such resolutions.  
Article 99 
Without prejudice to the rights of any bona fide third party, all resolutions issued 
by shareholder assemblies to the contrary of the provisions of the Law or the 
company’s  articles  of  association  shall  be  deemed  null  and  void.  Any 
shareholder who objects to the resolution in violation during the meeting of the 
shareholder assembly issuing it or who is absent from the meeting for a valid 
reason, may demand the invalidation of the resolution. An invalidation of the 
resolution  shall  render  it  null  and  void  for  all  shareholders.  An  action  of 
invalidation shall not be heard after the lapse of one year from the date of 
issuance of such resolution.  
Article 100 
1. Shareholders  representing  at  least  5%  of  the  capital  may  request  the 
competent  judicial  authority  to  order  inspection  of  any  suspicious  acts 
concerning the company carried out by board members or the auditor.  
2. The competent judicial authority may order an inspection at the expense of 
the complainants, after hearing the statements of board members and the 
auditor in a special session, and may, if necessary, order the complainants 
to provide a security. 
3. If the complaint proves to be valid, the competent judicial authority may order 
precautionary measures as it deems appropriate, and may call the general 
assembly to take necessary decisions. It may also remove board members 
and the auditor and appoint an interim director and determine his powers 
and term.  
Chapter 4: Audit Committee 
Article 101 
In joint-stock companies, an audit committee shall be formed pursuant to a 
  29 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
decision by the ordinary general assembly from non-executive board members, 
whether shareholders or non-shareholders. Such committee shall comprise not 
less  than  three  members  and  not  more  than  five  members.  The  general 
assembly decision shall stipulate committee’s tasks, work procedures and 
remuneration of its members. 
Article 102 
An audit committee meeting shall be valid only if attended by majority of its 
members, and its decisions shall be passed by a majority vote of attending 
members. In case of a tie, the chairman of the meeting shall have the casting 
vote.  
Article 103 
The audit committee shall monitor the company’s activities and shall have 
access  to  the  company’s  records  and  documents,  and  may  request 
clarifications or statements from board members or executive management. It 
may also request the board to call for a general assembly meeting if the board 
hinders its work or if the company suffers serious damage or loss.  
Article 104  
The audit committee shall review the company’s financial statements, and 
auditor’s reports and notes, and shall provide its opinion thereon, if any. The 
committee shall also prepare a report of its opinion concerning the efficiency of 
internal controls within the company, and about any other activities falling within 
its powers. The board shall deposit a sufficient number of copies of such report 
at the head office of the company at least 21 days prior to the general assembly 
meeting to be available for shareholders. Said report shall be read during the 
meeting of the general assembly. 
Chapter 5: Bonds Issued by a Joint-Stock Company 
Section 1: Shares 
Article 105 
1. The shares of a joint stock company shall be nominal and indivisible vis-a-
vis the company. If a share is owned by multiple persons, they shall select 
one of them to represent them in the use of rights related thereto. Such 
persons shall be jointly liable for obligations arising from ownership of said 
share.  
2. The share shall have a nominal value of 10 riyals. The Minister may amend 
such value upon agreement with the Chairman.  
3. Shares may not be issued for less than their nominal value, but they may be 
  30 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
issued  for  a  higher  value  if  provided  for  in  the  company’s  articles  of 
association  or  approved  by  the  general  assembly.  In  such  case,  the 
difference in value shall be added in a separate item as part of equity, and 
may not be distributed as dividends to shareholders.  
4. The  preceding  provisions  shall  apply  to  interim  certificates  delivered  to 
shareholders before the issuance of shares. 
Article 106 
1. The company’s shares shall be issued against cash or in-kind contributions. 
2. The paid portion of the value of shares issued against cash contributions 
shall not be less than a quarter of its nominal value. The share certificate 
shall state the paid amount. In all cases, the remaining value shall be paid 
within five years from the date of issuance of shares.  
3. Shares representing in-kind contributions shall be issued upon payment of 
its  full  value,  and  may  not  be  delivered  to  their  holders  except  upon 
transferring the ownership of such shares in full to the company.  
Article 107 
1. Shares  subscribed  by  incorporators  may  not  be  tradable  except  upon 
publication of the financial statements for two fiscal years, each is not less 
than twelve months, as from the date of the company’s incorporation. The 
certificates of such shares shall be marked with an indication of their type, 
date of the company’s incorporation and restriction period for trading.  
2. During the restriction period, ownership of shares owned by an incorporator 
may be transferred to another incorporator in accordance with the provisions 
governing the sale of rights, or from the heirs of one of the incorporators, in 
the event of his death, to others, or in case of enforcement against the 
property of an insolvent or bankrupt incorporator, without prejudice to other 
incorporators’ right of first refusal.  
3. The  provisions  of  this  Article  shall  apply  to  shares  subscribed  by 
incorporators in case of capital increase prior to expiration of the restriction 
period.  
4. For companies seeking to be listed, CMA may increase or decrease the 
restriction period set forth in paragraph 1 of this Article.  
Article 108 
The company’s articles of association may provide for restrictions related to 
trading of shares, provided that such restrictions do not lead to permanent ban 
of trading of such shares. 
Article 109 
1. Shares of unlisted companies shall be traded by entering the same into the 
shareholders’  register,  prepared  by  the  company  or  outsourced,  which 
  31 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
includes  shareholders’  names,  nationalities,  places  of  residence, 
occupations, shares’ numbers and paid amounts. Shares entered into such 
register shall be marked. Transfer of ownership of nominal share shall be 
valid vis-a-vis the company or a third party only from the date of entry into 
said register. 
2. Shares of listed companies shall be traded in accordance with the provisions 
of the Capital Market Law.  
Article 110 
Shares shall entail equal rights and obligations. Shareholders shall have all 
rights associated with shares, particularly the rights to dividends, the company’s 
assets  upon  liquidation,  attendance  and  participation  in  shareholder 
assemblies  and  voting  on  resolutions,  disposal  of  shares,  access  to  the 
company’s books and documents, monitoring board activities, initiation of a 
liability  suit  against  board  members  and  appealing  resolutions  issued  by 
shareholder assemblies, in accordance with conditions and limitations set forth 
in the Law or in the company’s articles of association. 
Article 111 
1. The company’s articles of association may provide for share redemption 
during incorporation of the company, if it is an enterprise the value of which 
depreciates gradually or is based on temporary rights. The redemption of 
shares shall be made only from profits or disposable reserve. Redemption 
shall be made by annual drawing or any other way that guarantees fairness 
to shareholders.  
2. Redemption shall be made by the company’s repurchase of its own shares, 
provided that the repurchase price is less than, or equal to, the nominal 
value. The company shall write off shares obtained in this manner.  
3. A shareholder whose shares are redeemed in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Article shall be given jouissance shares. Unredeemed shares shall be 
allocated a higher percentage of the annual net profit than that allocated to 
jouissance shares, in accordance with the company’s articles of association.  
4. In case of the company’s termination, shareholders of unredeemed shares 
shall have the priority to obtain, out of the company’s assets, an amount 
equivalent to the nominal value of their shares.  
Article 112 
1. The company may repurchase its own shares or accept them as a pledge in 
accordance with rules set by the Competent Authority. Shares repurchased 
by the company shall have no voting rights in shareholder assemblies.  
2. Shares may be pledged in accordance with rules set by the Competent 
Authority. The pledge creditor shall receive profits and use share-related 
rights, unless the pledge contract stipulates otherwise. The pledge creditor 
may not attend meetings of the shareholder general assembly nor vote 
  32 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
therein.  
Article 113 
1. A shareholder shall have the right to vote in general or special assemblies in 
accordance with the provisions of the company’s articles of association. 
Each share shall have one vote in shareholder assemblies.  
2. The company’s articles of association may provide for the maximum number 
of votes for those voting by proxy. 
Article 114 
The extraordinary general assembly of the company may, in accordance with 
the company’s articles of association and rules set by the Competent Authority, 
issue preferred shares, repurchase such shares, or convert ordinary shares into 
preferred shares or vice-versa. Preferred shares shall have no voting rights in 
shareholder general assemblies. Holders of preferred shares shall be entitled 
to a higher percentage of the company’s net profit than holders of ordinary 
shares, after setting aside statutory reserve. 
Article 115 
In case there are preferred shares, no shares with priority over them may be 
issued  except  upon  the  approval  of  a  special  assembly  composed,  in 
accordance with Article 89 of the Law, of holders of preferred shares who are 
prejudiced  by  such  issuance,  and  the  approval  of  a  general  assembly 
composed of all classes of shareholders, unless the company’s articles of 
association stipulate otherwise. This provision shall apply upon amendment or 
termination of priority rights for the preferred shares in the company’s articles 
of association.  
Article 116 
1. If no dividends are distributed for any fiscal year, dividends for subsequent 
years  may  not  be  distributed  except  upon  payment  of  the  prescribed 
percentage, as stated in Article 114 of the Law, to the holders of preferred 
shares for said year.  
2. If the company fails to pay the percentage stipulated in Article 114 of the Law 
of profits for three consecutive years, the special assembly of holders of such 
shares, held in accordance with the provisions of Article 89 of the Law, may 
decide  either  to  attend  the  company’s  general  assembly  meetings  and 
participate in the voting, or appoint representatives in the company’s board 
of directors in proportion to their shares of the capital, until profits designated 
for preferred shares for previous years are fully paid by the company to the 
holders of such shares.  
Article 117 
1. A shareholder shall pay the value of the share on designated dates. If he 
fails to do so, the board of directors may, after notifying him in the manner 
  33 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
prescribed in the company’s articles of association or by registered mail, sell 
the share at a public auction or in the capital market, as the case may be, in 
accordance with rules set by the Competent Authority.  
2. The company shall receive the amounts due thereto from the sale proceeds 
and  shall  return  any  remaining  amount  to  the  shareholder.  If  the  sale 
proceeds are insufficient to satisfy the due amounts, the company may 
satisfy such amounts from the shareholder. 
3. A shareholder in default up to the sale date may pay the due amount, in 
addition to any related expenses incurred by the company. 
4. The company shall cancel the share sold in accordance with the provisions 
of this Article, and shall give the purchaser a new share carrying the number 
of the cancelled share. The sale shall be entered into the share register along 
with the name of the new holder.  
Article 118 
The company may not request the shareholder to pay any amount other than 
the amount determined upon issuing the share, even if the company’s articles 
of association stipulate otherwise. A shareholder may not request refund of his 
share  in  the  company’s  capital.  The  company  may  not  discharge  the 
shareholder from liability to pay the remaining value of the share. Payment of 
such remaining value may not be offset by the shareholder’s rights granted by 
the company. 
Article 119 
If a share certificate is lost or damaged, its holder may request the company to 
issue a replacement certificate. The shareholder shall publish the number of 
lost or damaged share certificate in a daily newspaper. If no objection is 
submitted to the company within 30 days as of the date of publication, the 
company shall issue a new certificate indicating that it is a replacement for the 
lost or damaged certificate. Such certificate shall entitle its holder to all rights 
and entail all obligations related to the lost or damaged certificate.  
Article 120 
1. Any person objecting to the issuance of a new certificate as a replacement 
for the lost or damaged certificate shall initiate a summary suit before the 
competent judicial authority within 15 days as of the date of submitting the 
objection. Otherwise, the objection shall be considered null and void.  
2. The company shall deliver the replacement certificate to its rightful holder 
once the period stipulated in paragraph 1 of this Article expires without 
initiation  of  a  lawsuit  or  issuance  of  a  final  judgment  invalidating  the 
objection.  
  34 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
Section 2: Debt Instruments and Sukuk  
Article 121 
A company shall observe Sharia provisions governing debts upon issuance of 
and trading in debt instruments.  
Article 122 
1. A joint-stock company may, in accordance with the Capital Market Law, issue 
negotiable debt instruments or sukuk.  
2. A company may not issue debt instruments or sukuk that are convertible into 
shares  except  upon  a  decision  by  the  extraordinary  general  assembly 
prescribing the maximum number of shares that may be issued against such 
instruments  or  sukuk,  whether  such  instruments  or  sukuk  are  issued 
simultaneously, through a series of issues or under one or more schemes 
for issuing debt instruments or sukuk. The board of directors shall, without a 
new  approval  from  said  assembly,  issue  new  shares  against  such 
instruments or sukuk pursuant to conversion requests made by their holders, 
upon expiration of the conversion period prescribed for holders of such 
instruments or sukuk. The board shall take necessary action to amend the 
company’s articles of association with regard to the capital and number of 
shares issued.  
3. The board of directors shall announce capital increase following completion 
of  procedures  in  the  manner  prescribed  by  the  Law  for  publication  of 
extraordinary general assembly resolutions.  
Article 123 
Subject to Article 122 of the Law, the company may convert debt instruments 
or sukuk into shares in accordance with the Capital Market Law. In all cases, 
such instruments and sukuk may not be converted into shares in the following 
cases:  
a) If the conditions for issuance of debt instruments and sukuk do not provide 
for conversion of such instruments and sukuk into shares by increasing the 
company’s capital. 
b) If the holder of debt instruments or sukuk does not approve such conversion.  
Article 124 
Any stakeholder may petition the competent judicial authority to nullify any 
action in violation of the provisions of Articles 122 or 123 of the Law, and 
compensate the holders of debt instruments or sukuk for sustained damages.  
Article 125 
Resolutions  of  shareholder  assemblies  shall  apply  to  holders  of  debt 
instruments and sukuk. Said assemblies may not amend rights established for 
  35 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
such holders except upon a consent issued by them in a special assembly held 
in accordance with the provisions of Article 89 of the Law.  
Chapter 6: Finances of a Joint Stock Company 
Section 1: Company Accounts 
Article 126  
1. The fiscal year of the company shall be twelve months to be specified in its 
articles of association. As an exception, the first fiscal year may not be less 
than six months and not more than 18 months as of the date of registration 
in the commercial register.  
2. The board of directors shall, at the end of each fiscal year, prepare the 
company’s financial statements and a report on its activities and financial 
position for the last fiscal year. Said report shall include a proposal on 
distribution of profits. The board shall make such documents available to the 
auditor at least 45 days prior to the general assembly meeting. 
3. Documents provided for in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be signed by the 
chairman of the company’s board, chief executive officer and chief financial 
officer, and a copy thereof shall be kept at the company’s head office to be 
available to shareholders at least 21 days prior to the general assembly 
meeting. 
4. The chairman of the board shall provide shareholders with the company’s 
financial statements, board’s report and auditor’s report, unless published in 
a daily newspaper distributed in the area where the company’s head office 
is located. He shall also provide a copy thereof to the Ministry, and to CMA 
in the case of a listed company, at least 15 days prior to the general assembly 
meeting.  
Article 127 
The organization of the financial statements for each fiscal year shall follow the 
organization of previous years, and the standards for assets and liabilities 
valuation shall remain unchanged, without prejudice to recognized accounting 
standards. 
Article 128 
The board of directors shall, within 30 days from the date of the general 
assembly’s approval of the financial statements, and the reports of the board, 
the auditor and the audit committee, deposit copies of said documents with the 
Ministry, and with CMA in the case of a listed company.  
  36 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
Article 129 
1. Subject to other relevant laws, 10% of the net profit shall be set aside on an 
annual basis to create the company’s statutory reserve. The ordinary general 
assembly may decide to discontinue setting aside such percentage when 
said reserve reaches 30% of paid-in capital. The company’s articles of 
association may provide for setting aside a certain percentage of the net 
profit to create a provisional reserve allocated for purposes specified therein.  
2. The ordinary general assembly may, when determining dividends, decide to 
create other reserves to serve the company’s interest or ensure distribution 
of fixed dividends, as much as possible, to shareholders. Said assembly may 
also deduct amounts from the net profit for the purpose of establishing social 
programs  for  the  company’s  staff  or  to  provide  assistance  to  existing 
programs.  
Article 130 
1. The statutory reserve shall be used to cover the company’s losses or to 
increase capital. If such reserve exceeds 30% of the paid-in capital, the 
ordinary  general  assembly  may  decide  to  distribute  the  surplus  to 
shareholders in the years the company fails to make net profits sufficient for 
distribution as specified in the company’s articles of association.  
2. The provisional reserve may not be used except pursuant to a decision by 
the extraordinary general assembly. If such reserve is not allocated for a 
specific  purpose,  the  ordinary  general  assembly  may,  upon  a 
recommendation by the board, decide to spend the same for the benefit of 
the company or shareholders.  
3. The ordinary general assembly may use the residual profit and distributable 
provisional reserves to pay the remaining value of the share or a part thereof, 
without discrimination among shareholders.  
Article 131 
1. The company’s articles of association shall provide for the percentage of the 
net profit to be distributed to shareholders, after setting aside the statutory 
reserve and other reserves.  
2. A shareholder shall be entitled to his share of the profit pursuant to a decision 
by  the  general  assembly.  Such  decision  shall  indicate  eligibility  and 
distribution  dates.  Entitlement  to  dividends  shall  be  for  shareholders 
registered in the shareholders’ register by the end of the eligibility date. The 
Competent Authority shall determine the maximum period during which the 
board of directors shall implement the decision of the ordinary general 
assembly regarding distribution of dividends to shareholders. 
  37 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
Section 2: The Auditor 
Article 132 
Shareholders shall monitor the company’s accounts in accordance with the 
provisions set forth in the Law and the company’s articles of association. 
Article 133 
1. The company shall have one auditor (or more) licensed to operate in the 
Kingdom. The general assembly shall appoint such auditor and determine 
his  remuneration  and  term.  The  general  assembly  may  re-appoint  the 
auditor, provided that the aggregate term does not exceed five consecutive 
years. An auditor who completes such term may be re-appointed upon the 
lapse of two years from the date of expiration thereof. The general assembly 
may,  at  any  time,  replace  the  auditor  without  prejudice  to  his  right  to 
compensation if the replacement is unjustified or occurs at an inappropriate 
time.  
2. The auditor may not, while serving as an auditor, participate in the company’s 
incorporation,  serve  as  a  board  member  or  carry  out  technical  or 
administrative work in the company or for its benefit, even on an advisory 
basis. An auditor may not also be a partner, an employee or a relative up to 
and  including  the  fourth  degree  of  a  company’s  incorporator  or  board 
member. Any act to the contrary shall be null and void, and the violator shall 
pay the amounts he receives to the Ministry of Finance.  
Article 134 
The auditor may access the company’s books, records and other documents at 
any time. He may also request data and explanations that he deems necessary 
for verification of the company’s assets and liabilities as well as other matters 
falling within the scope of his work. The chairman of the board shall facilitate 
the auditor’s performance of his duties. If the auditor encounters difficulty in this 
regard, he shall report the same to the board of directors. If the board fails to 
facilitate the work of the auditor, he shall request the board to call for an ordinary 
general assembly meeting to consider the matter.  
Article 135 
The auditor shall submit a report to the annual ordinary general assembly in 
accordance with recognized auditing standards. The report shall include the 
extent to which the company’s management was cooperative in providing him 
with requested data and explanations, and any detected violations of the Law 
or the company’s articles of association as well as his opinion on the integrity 
of the company’s financial statements. The auditor shall read his report at the 
general assembly meeting. If the general assembly decides to approve the 
report of the board and the financial statements without hearing the auditor’s 
report, its decision shall be null and void.  
  38 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
Article 136 
1. The auditor may not disclose to shareholders in other than the general 
assembly or to others the confidential information that he becomes privy to 
in the course of performing his duty. Otherwise, he shall be discharged and 
be liable for compensation.  
2. The auditor shall be liable for damages sustained by the company, the 
shareholders  or  third  parties  due  to  faults  attributed  to  the  auditor’s 
performance of his duties. If such faults are the responsibility of multiple 
auditors, said auditors shall be jointly liable.  
Chapter 7: Alteration of Capital 
Section 1: Capital Increase 
Article 137 
1. The extraordinary general assembly may decide to increase the company’s 
capital, provided that the capital is fully paid. The capital does not have to be 
paid in full if the unpaid portion of the capital relates to shares issued against 
conversion  of  debt  instruments  or  sukuk  into  shares  and  the  period 
prescribed for conversion has not yet expired. 
2. In  all  cases,  the  extraordinary  general  assembly  may,  upon  increasing 
capital, allocate issued shares or a part thereof to the company’s employees 
or any of its subsidiaries. Shareholders may not exercise preemptive rights 
when the company issues shares allocated for employees.  
Article 138 
Capital may be increased by one of the following ways:  
a) Issuing new shares against cash or in-kind contributions.  
b) Issuing new shares against specified due company’s debts, provided that the 
issuance is made at the value prescribed by the extraordinary general 
assembly upon obtaining the opinion of an expert or an accredited valuer, 
and upon issuance of a statement by the board of directors and the auditor 
indicating the origin and amount of such debts. The statement shall be 
signed by board members and the auditor, who shall be liable for its validity.  
c) Issuing  new  shares  equal  to  the  amount  of  the  reserve  which  the 
extraordinary  general  assembly  decides  to  include  in  the  capital.  Such 
shares shall be issued in the same class and conditions of traded shares, 
and  shall  be  distributed  to  shareholders  for  no  consideration  at  a  rate 
commensurate with their holdings of original shares. 
d) Issuing new shares against debt instruments or sukuk.  
  39 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
Article 139 
A shareholder shall, upon issuance of the decision of the general assembly 
approving capital increase, have a preemptive right to subscribe to new shares 
issued against cash contributions. Such shareholders shall be notified of such 
right, if any, by publication in a daily newspaper, or transmission by registered 
mail of the decision of capital increase, conditions and period of subscription as 
well as beginning and ending dates. 
Article 140 
The extraordinary general assembly shall, if provided for in the company’s 
articles of association, have the right to suspend shareholders’ preemptive 
rights to subscribe to the capital increase against cash contributions or give 
such rights to non-shareholders in cases it deems beneficial for the company.  
Article 141 
Shareholders shall be entitled to sell or assign the preemptive rights during the 
period from the time of issuing the decision of the general assembly approving 
the capital increase up to the last day of subscription in the newly issued shares 
associated with such rights, in accordance with rules set by the Competent 
Authority.  
Article 142 
Without prejudice to Article 140 of the Law, newly issued shares shall be 
distributed  to  holders  of  preemptive  rights  requesting  subscription, 
proportionate with preemptive rights they have against the total preemptive 
rights resulting from capital increase, provided that the newly issued shares 
they obtain do not exceed the shares they request. The remaining new shares 
shall be distributed to holders of preemptive rights requesting more than their 
share, proportionate with the preemptive rights they have against the total 
preemptive rights resulting from capital increase, provided that the newly issued 
shares they obtain do not exceed the shares they request. The remaining 
shares  shall  be offered  to  third  parties,  unless  otherwise  stipulated  in an 
extraordinary general assembly resolution or in the Capital Market Law.  
Article 143 
Shares issued against in-kind contributions upon increasing the capital shall be 
subject to the provisions applied in valuating in-kind shares contributed for the 
company’s incorporation. The ordinary general assembly shall replace the 
incorporation assembly in this regard.  
Section 2: Capital Decrease 
Article 144 
The extraordinary general assembly may decide to decrease the capital if it is 
  40 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
in excess of the need of the company or if the company incurs losses. In the 
latter case only, the capital may be decreased below the limit set forth in Article 
54 of the Law. The decision to decrease the capital shall not be issued until 
after reading the auditor’s report regarding the grounds for such decrease, the 
company’s liabilities and effect of decrease on such liabilities. 
Article 145 
If the capital decrease is due to its being in excess of the company’s need, the 
creditors shall be called to submit their objections thereto within 60 days from 
the date of publishing the decision of capital decrease in a daily newspaper 
distributed in the area where the company’s head office is located. If a creditor 
objects and presents his documents to the company within said period, the 
company shall pay the debt owed to him if it is due or provide sufficient 
guarantee if the debt is not yet due.  
Article 146 
The capital shall be decreased by either of the following:  
a) Cancelling a number of shares equal to the amount to be decreased. 
b) Repurchasing a number of shares by the company, equal to the amount to 
be decreased, and cancelling such shares. 
Article 147 
If the capital decrease is made by cancelling a number of shares, equality 
among shareholders shall be maintained. Shareholders shall surrender to the 
company,  within  the  period  set  by it,  shares  determined  to be  cancelled. 
Otherwise, such shares shall be considered void.  
Article 148 
1. If capital decrease is made by repurchasing a number of the company’s 
shares for the purpose of cancellation, shareholders shall be called to offer 
their shares for sale. The call shall be made by notifying shareholders of the 
company’s wish to repurchase shares by registered mail or by publication in 
a daily newspaper distributed in the area where the company’s head office 
is located. 
2. If  the  number  of  shares  offered  for  sale  exceeds  the  number  that  the 
company  decides  to  repurchase,  the  sale  orders  shall  be  reduced  in 
proportion to such increase.  
3. The repurchase price of shares of unlisted companies shall be estimated at 
a  fair  value.  The  shares  of  listed  companies  shall  be  repurchased  in 
accordance with the Capital Market Law. 
  41 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
Chapter 8: Termination of a Joint Stock Company 
Article 149 
If all shares of a joint stock company devolve to a single shareholder not fulfilling 
the conditions set forth in Article 55 of the Law, the company shall remain solely 
liable for its debts and liabilities. However, such shareholder shall amend the 
company’s status in accordance with the provisions stipulated in this Part or 
transform the company into a limited liability company of one person within one 
year. Otherwise, the company shall be terminated by the force of law. 
Article 150 
1. If a joint stock company incurs losses amounting to half of the paid-in capital 
at any time during the fiscal year, any of the company executives or the 
auditor shall promptly, upon knowledge thereof, inform the chairman of the 
board, who shall promptly inform board members. The board of directors 
shall, within 15 days from the date of notification, call for an extraordinary 
general assembly meeting to be held within 45 days from the date of its 
knowledge of the losses, to decide whether to increase or decrease the 
company’s capital, in accordance with the provisions of the Law, to the extent 
where losses are decreased below half of the paid-in capital, or to dissolve 
the company prior to the date set forth in its articles of association.  
2. The  company  shall  be  deemed  terminated  by  the  force  of  law  if  the 
extraordinary general assembly fails to meet during the period set forth in 
paragraph 1 of this Article; if the assembly convenes but fails to issue a 
decision on the matter; or if it decides to increase the capital in accordance 
with this Article but the shares issued are not fully subscribed within 90 days 
from the assembly’s decision to increase the capital.  
Part 6: Limited Liability Company 
Chapter 1: General Provisions 
Article 151 
1. A limited liability company is a company comprising not more than fifty 
partners, where its liability is separate from the financial liability of each 
partner. The company shall be solely liable for due debts and liabilities. The 
owner of the company or the partner therein shall not be liable for such debts 
and liabilities. 
2. If the number of partners exceeds the number set forth in paragraph 1 of this 
Article, the company shall be transformed into a joint-stock company within 
a period not exceeding one year. If such period expires without transforming 
  42 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
the company, it shall be deemed terminated by the force of law, unless the 
increase results from inheritance or bequest. 
Article 152 
1. A limited liability company shall have a name derived from its purposes or an 
invented name. The company’s name shall not include the name of a natural 
person, unless the company’s purpose is to use a patent registered under 
the name of such person; the company owns a commercial entity and adopts 
the name of the latter as its own name; or such name is a name of a company 
transformed into a limited liability company and its name includes the name 
of a natural person. If a company is owned by one person, the name shall 
indicate that it is a limited liability company owned by one person; otherwise, 
paragraph 2 of this Article shall apply. 
2. The  company’s  directors  shall  be  jointly  and  personally  liable  for  the 
company’s liabilities if the company’s name does not include the phrase 
“limited liability” or the amount of the capital is not stated with the company’s 
name.  
Article 153 
1. A limited liability company may not engage in banking, financing, saving or 
insurance activities, or investment of funds for third parties. 
2. A limited liability company may not use initial public offering to create or 
increase  its  capital  or  to  obtain  a  loan,  nor  may  it  issue  negotiable 
instruments.  
Article 154 
1. Notwithstanding Article 2 of the Law, a limited liability company may be set 
up by one person, and all shares of a limited liability company may devolve 
to one person. In such case, the liability of such person shall be limited to 
funds allocated to the company’s capital. Such person shall have the powers 
of the director, the company’s board of directors and the general assembly 
of partners as stipulated in this Chapter, and he may appoint one or more 
directors to represent the company before the court, arbitration tribunals and 
third parties, and be responsible for its management before the partner 
owning company’s shares.  
2. In all cases, a natural person may not set up or own more than one limited 
liability company of one person. A limited liability company owned by one 
person, natural or legal, may not set up or own another limited liability 
company of one person.  
Article 155 
A person owning a limited liability company shall be personally liable for the 
company’s debts towards third parties with whom he deals in the name of the 
company, in the following cases: 
  43 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
a) If, in bad faith, he liquidates the company or ceases its activity prior to the 
date of expiration of its term or prior to realizing its purposes.  
b) If he does not separate between the company’s activities and his own 
activities. 
c) If  he  engages  in  activities  for  the  company  before  it  acquires  legal 
personality. 
Chapter 2: Incorporation 
Article 156 
The articles of incorporation of a limited liability company shall be signed by all 
partners, and shall specifically include the following data: 
a) Company’s name, type, purpose and head office.  
b) Partners’ names, places of residence, occupations and nationalities.  
c) Names of members of the supervisory board, if any.  
d) Amount  of  capital,  amount  of  cash  and  in-kind  shares,  and  detailed 
description of in-kind shares, their value and names of contributors.  
e) Acknowledgment by partners that all capital shares are distributed and their 
value is fully paid.  
f)  Manner of distribution of profits and losses. 
g) Company’s commencement and expiration dates.  
h) Forms of notification served by the company to partners.  
Article 157  
Valuation of in-kind shares shall be subject to provisions pertaining to valuation 
of such shares in a joint-stock company. Partners who contribute such shares 
shall be personally and jointly liable against third parties for the fair valuation of 
the in-kind shares they contribute. In such case, a liability claim shall not be 
heard after the lapse of five years from the date of publication of the company’s 
incorporation and its registration in the commercial register in accordance with 
Article 158 of the Law. 
Article 158 
The company’s directors shall, within 30 days from the date of incorporation, 
publish the articles of incorporation at the company’s expense on the Ministry’s 
website. The directors shall enter the company into the commercial register 
within  said  period.  The  aforementioned  provisions  shall  apply  to  any 
amendment made to the company’s articles of incorporation.  
  44 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
Article 159 
A limited liability company incorporated in violation of Articles 153, 154, 156 
and 157 of the Law shall be considered null and void vis-a-vis any stakeholder. 
Partners may not use such nullification against third parties. In case such 
nullification is established due to the above, partners responsible for the same 
shall be jointly liable against other partners and third parties for damages.  
Chapter 3: Capital and Shares 
Article 160 
The company’s capital shall, upon its incorporation, be sufficient to achieve its 
purposes. Partners shall determine the capital in the company’s articles of 
incorporation. Such capital shall be divided into indivisible and untradeable 
shares of equal value. If a share is owned by multiple persons, the company 
may suspend the use of rights associated therewith until the owners of such 
share select one from among themselves to act as a sole owner vis-a-vis the 
company. The company may set a deadline for such owners to make the 
selection. The company may, after the passage of such deadline, sell the share 
for the benefit of its owners. In such case, the share shall be offered to other 
partners and then to third parties in accordance with Article 161 of the Law, 
unless the articles of incorporation stipulate otherwise.  
Article 161  
1. A partner may assign his share to another partner in accordance with the 
conditions stipulated in the company’s articles of incorporation. 
2. If a partner wishes to assign his share, for or without consideration, to a non-
partner, the other partners shall be notified of the name of the assignee or 
purchaser and the assignment or sale conditions through the company’s 
director. The director shall notify the remaining partners upon receipt of such 
notification. Each partner may request redemption of the share within thirty 
days from the date of notifying the director of the price agreed upon, unless 
the  company's articles  of  incorporation  provide  for  a  different  valuation 
method or a longer period. If redemption is requested by more than one 
partner, such share(s) shall be divided among them in proportion to their 
share in the capital. If the period referred to in this paragraph lapses without 
any of the partners requesting redemption of their share, the shareholder 
shall have the right to assign his share to a third party.  
3. The right to request redemption provided for in this Article shall not apply to 
transfer of ownership of shares by means of inheritance or bequest, or 
pursuant to a judgment by a competent judicial authority.  
Article 162 
The company shall maintain a special register of names of partners, number of 
  45 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
shares owned by each and actions taken thereon. Transfer of ownership 
against the company or third party shall be made only after stating the ground 
therefor in said register. The company shall notify the Ministry of said transfer 
to be entered into the company’s record therewith.  
Article 163 
Shares shall entail equal rights to net profit and liquidation surplus, unless the 
articles of incorporation stipulate otherwise. 
Chapter 4: Management 
Article 164 
1. The company shall be managed by one or more directors from among 
partners  or  others.  The  partners  shall  appoint  the  director(s)  in  the 
company’s articles of incorporation or in a separate contract for a specified 
or unspecified period. In case of multiple directors, a board of directors may 
be formed pursuant to a decision by the partners. 
2. The company’s articles of incorporation or the partners’ decision shall specify 
the board’s work procedures and the majority required for its decisions. The 
company shall be bound by the acts of directors that are in line with the 
company’s purposes. 
Article 165 
1. Partners  may  dismiss  the  director(s),  whether  appointed  under  the 
company’s articles of incorporation or under a separate contract, without 
prejudice to their right to compensation if the dismissal is made on illegitimate 
grounds or at an inappropriate time.  
2. The directors shall be jointly liable for damages sustained by the company, 
the partners or third parties as a result of violating the provisions of the Law 
or the company’s articles of incorporation or as a result of wrongs committed 
by them in the performance of their duties. Any condition to the contrary shall 
be considered null and void. 
3. The partners’ approval to discharge directors from liability shall not preclude 
initiating a liability claim.  
4. In cases other than fraud and forgery, any liability claim may not be heard 
upon the lapse of five years as of the end of the fiscal year in which a 
misfeasance occurs or three years from the end of the relevant director’s 
term in the company, whichever is later. 
Article 166 
A limited liability company shall have one or more auditors in accordance with 
the provisions prescribed for joint-stock companies. 
  46 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
Article 167  
1. A limited liability company shall have a general assembly comprising all 
partners.  
2. The  general  assembly  shall  convene  upon  a  call  by  the  director(s)  as 
prescribed in the company’s articles of incorporation, provided that it is held 
at  least  once  a  year  during  the  four  months  following  the  end  of  the 
company’s fiscal year.  
3. The general assembly may be called for a meeting at any time upon the 
request of the directors, supervisory board, auditor or one or more partners 
representing at least 10 percent of the capital. 
4. Minutes  summarizing  general  assembly  deliberations  shall  be  drafted. 
Meeting minutes, general assembly resolutions and partners’ decisions shall 
be  entered  into  a  special  register  maintained  by  the  company  for  this 
purpose.  
Article 168 
1. Decisions of partners shall be issued at the general assembly. However, 
partners in a company comprising not more than twenty partners may state 
their decisions individually. In such case, the company’s director shall send 
a registered letter to each partner with the proposed decisions to vote 
thereon in writing.  
2. In all cases, decisions shall be valid only if approved by a number of partners 
representing at least more than half of the capital, unless the company’s 
articles of incorporation provide for a greater majority.  
3. If the majority set forth in paragraph 2 of this Article is not achieved in the 
deliberation or at the first consultation, partners shall be called for another 
meeting by registered mail, unless the company’s articles of incorporation 
stipulate otherwise. 
4. Decisions of the meeting referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article shall be 
issued by the majority vote of shares represented therein, regardless of the 
percentage they represent in the capital, unless the company’s articles of 
incorporation stipulate otherwise. 
5. The company’s articles of incorporation may determine other means for 
calling for meetings or notification of decisions.  
Article 169 
The agenda of the annual meeting of the general assembly of partners shall 
include the following: 
a) Hearing the report of the company’s directors regarding its activity and 
financial position during the fiscal year and the auditor’s report, as well as 
the report of the supervisory board, if any. 
b) Discussing and approving the financial statements.  
  47 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
c) Determining the percentage of profit to be distributed to partners.  
d) Appointing the company’s directors or members of the supervisory board, if 
any, and determining their remuneration. 
e) Appointing an auditor and determining his fees. 
f)  Other  matters  falling  within  the  powers  of  the  general  assembly  in 
accordance with the Law or the company’s articles of incorporation.  
Article 170 
1. The general assembly of partners may not discuss matters other than those 
listed on the agenda, unless facts requiring discussion arise during the 
meeting.  
2. If a partner requests the listing of an item on the agenda, the company’s 
directors shall grant such request. Otherwise, said partner may resort to the 
assembly.  
Article 171 
Each partner shall have the right to discuss items listed on the agenda of the 
general assembly of partners. The company’s directors shall address partners’ 
questions. If a partner deems that the response to his question is unsatisfactory, 
he may resort to the assembly.  
Article 172 
1. If  the  number  of  partners  exceeds  twenty,  the  company’s  articles  of 
incorporation shall provide for appointing a supervisory board of at least 
three  partners  for  a  specified  term.  If  the  increase  occurs  after  the 
incorporation of the company, the general assembly of partners shall make 
this appointment at the earliest time possible.  
2. The general assembly may re-appoint members of the supervisory board 
after the expiry of their term on the board, or appoint other partners. It may 
also dismiss them at any time on reasonable grounds. In all cases, the 
company’s directors may not vote on the election or dismissal of members 
of the supervisory board.  
3. The supervisory board shall monitor the company’s activities, and express 
its opinion on matters submitted thereto by the company’s director(s), and 
on actions requiring its prior permission.  
4. The supervisory board shall submit a report on the company’s activities to 
the general assembly of partners at the end of each fiscal year.  
5. Members of the supervisory board shall not be liable for the acts of director(s) 
or outcomes thereof, unless they are aware of any wrongful acts and fail to 
notify the general assembly of partners.  
  48 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
Article 173 
1. Each partner shall have the right to participate in deliberations and voting, 
and shall be entitled to a number of votes equal to the number of shares he 
holds. No agreement to the contrary may be concluded.  
2. Each partner may delegate, in writing, another partner to attend the meetings 
of the partners and to vote on his behalf, unless the company’s articles of 
incorporation stipulate otherwise. 
3. A non-managing partner, in a company with no supervisory board, may 
provide advice to directors. He or his designee may request access to the 
company’s business and examine its books and documents at its head office 
within 15 days prior to the date set for presenting the annual closing accounts 
to partners. Any condition to the contrary shall be deemed null and void. 
4. Any person who obtains any information, by virtue of this Article, shall 
maintain the confidentiality thereof and not use such information for any 
purpose detrimental to the company or any of its partners, and shall be liable 
for damages arising from non-compliance.  
Article 174 
1. Subject to the consent of all partners, a company’s nationality may be 
changed, or its capital increased by raising the nominal value of partners’ 
shares or by issuing new shares. All partners shall be obligated to pay the 
value of the capital increase in proportion to their contributions.  
2. The company’s articles of incorporation may be amended, in other than the 
matters set forth in paragraph 1 of this Article, upon approval of the majority 
of partners representing at least three-quarters of the capital, unless the 
company’s articles of incorporation stipulate otherwise.  
Article 175 
1. The company’s directors shall prepare, for each fiscal year, the company’s 
financial statements, a report on its activities and financial position as well 
as proposals on distribution of dividends within three months from the end of 
the fiscal year.  
2. The directors shall provide a copy of the documents set forth in paragraph 1 
of this Article, a copy of the report of the supervisory board, if any, and a 
copy of the auditor’s report to the Ministry and to each partner within one 
month from the date of the preparation of said documents. Each partner may 
ask the directors to call for a meeting of the general assembly of partners for 
deliberation on documents referred to in this Article.  
Article 176 
A limited liability company shall annually allocate at least 10% of its net profit 
for the creation of a statutory reserve. Partners may discontinue the allocation 
when such reserve reaches 30% of the company’s capital. 
  49 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
Article 177 
The general assembly of partners may decide to decrease the company’s 
capital if it is in excess of its need or if the company incurs losses in an amount 
less than half the capital as per the following:  
a) The company’s creditors shall be invited to state their objections to the 
decrease within 60 days from the date of publication of such decision in a 
daily newspaper distributed in the area where the company’s head office is 
located. If a creditor objects and presents his documents within said period, 
the company shall pay him his debt if it is due or provide him with a sufficient 
guarantee if the debt is not due. 
b) The partners shall submit to the Ministry a proposed amendment to the 
company’s articles of incorporation regarding a decrease in the company’s 
capital, accompanied by a detailed statement certified by the company’s 
auditor.  Such  statement  shall  state  names  and  addresses  of  creditors, 
names of creditors objecting to the capital decrease, names of creditors 
whose due debts are paid or for whom a sufficient guarantee for payment of 
their  deferred  debt  is  provided.  The  proposal  shall  also  include  an 
acknowledgment by the partners of their joint liability for any debts not 
provided for in the statement. 
c) If the company has no debts, the partners may submit to the Ministry an 
acknowledgment certified by the auditor of their joint liability for any debts 
that may arise. In such case, they shall be relieved from the need to call 
creditors  to  submit  their  objections,  and  other  procedures  for  capital 
decrease shall be completed.  
Article 178 
1. Without prejudice to the rights of bona fide third parties, any decision issued 
by the general assembly in violation of the provisions of the Law or the 
company’s  articles  of  incorporation  shall  be  considered  null  and  void. 
Request of nullification shall be limited to partners who object, in writing, to 
the decision or who are unable to object thereto after becoming aware 
thereof.  Nullification  shall  render  the  decision  null  and  void  against  all 
partners.  
2. A claim of nullification shall not be heard upon the lapse of one year from the 
date of the decision referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 
Chapter 5: Termination 
Article 179 
A limited liability company shall not terminate by a partner’s death, interdiction, 
declaration of bankruptcy, insolvency or withdrawal, unless the company’s 
articles of incorporation stipulate otherwise.  
  50 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
Article 180 
1. Unless  the  company’s  articles  of  incorporation  stipulate  otherwise,  the 
company’s term may be extended prior to its expiration for another period 
pursuant to a decision by the general assembly, comprising any number of 
partners holding half of capital shares or by the majority of partners.  
2. If the decision to extend the term of the company is not issued, and the 
company continues to operate, the term shall be extended for a similar term 
subject to the same conditions provided for in the articles of incorporation.  
3. A partner not wishing to continue in the company may withdraw therefrom, 
and his shares shall be assessed in accordance with the provisions of Article 
161 of the Law. Extension shall be effective only after the sale of the partner’s 
share to other partners or to third parties, as the case may be, and after 
payment of its value, unless the withdrawing partner agrees otherwise with 
other partners. 
4. A third party with an interest in non-extension may file an objection thereto 
and request non-enforcement of such extension against him.  
Article 181 
1. If the losses of a limited liability company amount to half its capital, the 
company’s directors shall record such incident in the commercial register 
and call the partners for a meeting within 90 days from the date of being 
aware of such losses to consider the continuation or dissolution of the 
company.  
2. The  partners’  decision  to  continue  or  dissolve  the  company  shall  be 
published in the manner prescribed in Article 158 of the Law.  
3. The  company  shall  be  deemed  terminated  by  the  force  of  law  if  the 
company’s directors fail to call partners for a meeting or if the partners fail to 
issue a decision relating to the company’s continuation or dissolution.  
Part 7: Holding Company 
Article 182 
1. A holding company is a joint-stock or a limited liability company that aims to 
control other joint-stock or limited liability companies, called subsidiaries, by 
owning more than half of the capital of such companies or by controlling the 
formation of their boards of directors.  
2. The name and type of the company shall include the word “holding”.  
Article 183 
A holding company shall have the following purposes: 
a) Managing  its  subsidiaries  or  participating  in  the  management  of  other 
  51 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
companies in which it owns shares and providing support thereto. 
b) Investing its funds in shares and other securities. 
c) Owning real property and movable assets necessary for its operations. 
d) Providing loans, guarantees and financing to its subsidiaries.  
e) Owning and utilizing industrial property rights, including patents, trademarks, 
franchises  and  other  intangible  rights,  and  leasing  the  same  to  its 
subsidiaries or third parties.  
f)  Any other legitimate purpose in conformity with the nature of the company.  
Article 184 
A subsidiary may not acquire shares in a holding company. Any action to 
transfer the ownership of shares from a holding company to a subsidiary shall 
be deemed null and void.  
Article 185 
A  holding  company  shall,  at  the  end  of  each  year,  prepare  consolidated 
financial statements that include its subsidiaries, in accordance with recognized 
accounting standards.  
Article 186 
A holding company shall be subject to the provisions set forth in this Part and 
other provisions of the Law not conflicting therewith, depending on the type of 
company adopted.  
Part 8: Company Transformation and Merger 
Chapter 1: Company Transformation 
Article 187 
1. A company may be transformed into another type of company pursuant to a 
decision  issued  in  accordance  with  the  conditions  prescribed  for  the 
amendment  of  the  company’s  articles  of  association  or  articles  of 
incorporation,  provided  that  it  meets  the  requirements  of  incorporation, 
publication and registration in the commercial register prescribed for the type 
the company is transformed into. In case the company is transformed into a 
joint stock company, the shareholders shall be subject to Article 107 of the 
Law,  provided  that  the  restriction  period  commences  from  the  date  of 
issuance of the decision approving the company’s transformation. If the 
company’s transformation is accompanied by an increase in its capital by 
public offering, the restriction shall not apply to the shares subscribed to in 
  52 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
this manner.  
2. Partners or shareholders objecting to the decision of transformation may 
request disassociation from the company.  
3. Without prejudice to conditions of incorporation, publication or registration of 
a joint-stock company, unlimited liability company, limited partnership and 
limited liability company shall be transformed into a joint-stock company, if 
so requested by partners holding more than half of the capital, unless the 
articles of incorporation provide for a lower percentage, and provided that all 
shares of the company requesting transformation are owned by relatives to 
the fourth degree. Any condition to the contrary of this paragraph shall be 
deemed null and void.  
Article 188 
The transformation of a company shall not result in the creation of a new legal 
person, and the company shall maintain rights and obligations existing prior to 
the transformation.  
Article 189 
Transformation of an unlimited liability company or a limited partnership shall 
not result in relieving general partners from their liability for the company’s debts 
prior to the transformation, unless the creditors explicitly accept the same, or if 
none of the creditors object to the decision of transformation within thirty days 
from the date of being notified thereof by registered mail. 
Chapter 2: Merger 
Article 190 
Subject to relevant laws, a company may, even if under liquidation, merge into 
another company of the same type or of another type.  
Article 191 
1. Merger shall be made by combining one or more companies with another 
existing company or by combining two or more companies to establish a new 
company. The merger contract shall determine the conditions thereof, and 
shall set forth the valuation method of the liabilities of the merged company 
and the number of its shares in the capital of the merging company or the 
company resulting from the merger.  
2. Merger shall not be valid except after valuation of the net assets of the 
merged and merging companies, in case the consideration for the shares of 
the merged company or a part thereof is shares in the merging company.  
3. In all cases, the decision of merger shall be issued by each company that is 
a party thereto, in accordance with the conditions prescribed for amending 
  53 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
the articles of incorporation or the articles of association of such company.  
4. A partner who owns shares in the merged and merging companies may vote 
on the merger decision only in either company.  
Article 192 
All rights and obligations of the merged company shall be transferred to the 
merging company or the company resulting from the merger after completing 
merger procedures and registering the company in accordance with the Law. 
The merging company or the company resulting from the merger shall be 
considered a successor company of the merged company to the extent of 
assets transferred thereto, unless agreed otherwise in the merger contract. 
Article 193 
1. The merger decision shall be effective after the lapse of 30 days from the 
date of publication.  
2. Creditors of the merged company may, within said period, object to the 
merger by a registered letter addressed to the company. In this case, the 
merger shall be suspended until the creditor waives his objection, or until the 
company pays off the debt if due or otherwise provides sufficient guarantee 
to pay it off. 
Part 9: Foreign Company 
Article 194 
Without prejudice to any agreements concluded between the Kingdom and 
foreign companies, the provisions of the Law, except for provisions relating to 
incorporation of companies, shall apply to the following foreign companies: 
a) Companies operating in the Kingdom, whether through a branch, office, 
agency or any other form. 
b) Companies  having  a  representative  office  in  the  Kingdom  to  direct  or 
coordinate activities they conduct outside the Kingdom.  
Article 195 
A foreign company may not establish branches, agencies or offices in the 
Kingdom, except upon obtaining a license from the Saudi Arabian General 
Investment Authority (SAGIA) and the agency in charge of regulating and 
overseeing the type of activity or business engaged in by the foreign company 
in the Kingdom, nor may it issue or offer securities for subscription or sale in 
the Kingdom except in accordance with the Capital Market Law.  
  54 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
Article 196 
SAGIA shall provide the Ministry with a copy of the license issued thereby as 
well as a certified copy of the company’s articles of incorporation and articles 
of association. 
Article 197 
A licensed foreign company may not commence its operations except after 
registration in the commercial register.  
Article 198 
Each branch, agency or office of a foreign company shall print in Arabic, on all 
its papers, documents and publications, its address in the Kingdom as well as 
company’s full name, address, head office and name of the agent. 
Article 199 
A  branch,  agency  or  office  of  a  foreign  company  shall  prepare  financial 
statements for its operations in the Kingdom in accordance with recognized 
accounting standards and the external auditor’s report, and shall deposit the 
same with the Ministry within six months from the end of the fiscal year related 
to the operations of such branch, agency or office.  
Article 200 
A branch, agency or office of a foreign company in the Kingdom shall be 
considered  its  domicile  with  regard  to  its  operations  and  business  in  the 
Kingdom, and shall be subject to all applicable laws.  
Article 201 
If a foreign company commences its operations prior to completion of licensing 
and registration procedures, or if it engages in activities not covered by its 
license, the company and persons involved in such activities shall be held jointly 
liable.  
Article 202 
If the presence of a foreign company in the Kingdom is to perform specific 
activities during a specific period, it shall be temporarily registered in the 
commercial register. Such registration shall expire upon completion of such 
activities, and shall be stricken off upon settlement of its rights and obligations, 
in accordance with the provisions of the Law and other applicable laws. 
  55 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
Part 10: Liquidation 
Article 203 
1. The company shall, upon termination, enter into liquidation and shall retain 
its legal personality to the extent necessary for liquidation.  
2. The authority of the company’s directors shall end upon its dissolution. The 
directors shall continue to manage the company, and shall be deemed as 
liquidators against third parties until a liquidator is appointed. 
3. The company’s assemblies shall remain valid during the liquidation period, 
and the role thereof shall be limited to practicing its powers that are not in 
conflict with those of the liquidator. 
4. A partner shall have the right, during the liquidation period, to access the 
company’s documents in accordance with the Law or the company’s articles 
of incorporation or articles of association.  
Article 204   
Unless the company’s articles of incorporation or articles of association provide 
otherwise, or unless the partners agree to the method of liquidation of the 
company, liquidation shall be made in accordance with the provisions of the 
Law. 
Article 205   
1. Liquidation shall be made by one or more liquidators from partners or others.  
2. The decision of compulsory liquidation shall be issued by the competent 
judicial authority, while the decision of voluntary liquidation shall be issued 
by the partners or the general assembly. If partners do not agree to the acts 
set forth in paragraph 3 of this Article, the judicial authority shall perform such 
acts.  
3. The decision of liquidation, whether compulsory or voluntary, shall include 
appointing the liquidator and determining his powers and remuneration, the 
limitations imposed on the powers thereof and the necessary period for 
liquidation.  The  liquidator  shall  publish  the  decision  by  the  means  of 
publication approved for amending the company’s articles of incorporation 
or articles of association.  
4. The term of voluntary liquidation shall not exceed five years, and may not be 
extended for a further period unless upon a judicial order. 
Article 206   
In case of multiple liquidators, they shall work together and the acts thereof 
shall  be  considered  valid  only  if  unanimously  agreed  thereto,  unless  the 
appointment decision thereof or the authority appointing them allows them to 
work individually. Liquidators shall be jointly liable for damages sustained by 
  56 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
the company, partners or third parties for exceeding the limits of their powers 
or as a result of the errors committed thereby during the course of their duties. 
Article 207   
1. Subject to the restrictions included in the liquidation decision, the liquidator 
shall represent the company before the court and third parties, and shall 
perform all acts necessitated by the liquidation. In particular, he shall convert 
the company’s assets into cash, including the sale of movables and real 
estate in auction or in any other manner ensuring the highest price to be duly 
paid.  
2. The liquidator may not sell the company’s assets in full or offer them as a 
share in another company, unless authorized by the authority appointing 
him.  
3. The liquidator may not start new activities unless required for completion of 
previous ones. 
4. The company shall be bound by the liquidator’s acts falling within his powers. 
5. The liquidator’s powers shall expire upon the end of the liquidation period, 
unless extended in accordance with the provisions of the Law.  
Article 208   
1. The liquidator shall pay the company’s debts, if due, based on priority, and 
shall set aside funds necessary for payment if they are deferred or disputed.  
2. Debts arising from liquidation shall have priority over other debts.  
3. After payment of debts, the liquidator shall return the value of their shares in 
the  capital  to  the  partners  and  shall  distribute  any  surplus  to  them  in 
accordance with the provisions of the company’s articles of incorporation. If 
the articles of incorporation are silent on this matter, the surplus shall be 
distributed to partners in proportion to their shares in the capital. 
4. If the company’s net assets are insufficient to pay partners’ shares, the loss 
shall be distributed among them according to the percentage prescribed for 
distribution of losses. 
Article 209   
1. The liquidator shall prepare, within three months from assuming his duty, 
and in conjunction with the company’s auditor, if any, an inventory of the 
company’s assets and liabilities. The authority appointing the liquidator may 
extend this period, if necessary.  
2. The company’s directors or board members shall provide the liquidator with 
the company’s books, records, documents, clarifications and any information 
he requests.  
3. At  the  end  of  each  fiscal  year,  the  liquidator  shall  prepare  financial 
statements and a liquidation report, provided that the report includes his 
remarks  and  reservations  concerning  liquidation  proceedings,  causes 
  57 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
leading to hindering or delaying liquidation proceedings, if any, and his 
recommendations for extension of the liquidation period. The liquidator shall 
provide the Ministry with a copy of said documents and submit them to the 
partners  or  the  general  assembly  for  approval,  in  accordance  with  the 
company’s articles of incorporation or articles of association.  
4. At the end of liquidation, the liquidator shall prepare a detailed financial report 
on the liquidation. The liquidation shall end with the attestation of such report 
by the authority appointing the liquidator. 
5. The liquidator shall announce the end of liquidation in the manner prescribed 
for  announcement  of  amendments  made  to  the  company’s  articles  of 
incorporation or articles of association.  
Article 210   
In cases other than fraud and forgery, a claim against a liquidator due to the 
liquidation proceedings; against partners due to the company’s activities; or 
against  the  company’s  directors,  board  members  or  auditors  arising  from 
performing their duties shall not be heard after the lapse of five years from the 
date  of  announcement  of  the  end  of  liquidation  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of Article 209 of the Law and after striking off the company from the 
commercial register in accordance with the Commercial Register Law, or after 
the lapse of three years from the end of liquidation, whichever occurs later.  
Part 11: Penalties 
Article 211 
Without  prejudice  to  any  harsher  penalty  stipulated  in  any  other  law, 
imprisonment for a period not exceeding five years and a fine of not more than 
5,000,000 riyals, or either penalty, shall apply to: 
a) any director, officer, board member, auditor or liquidator who provides false 
or misleading information in financial statements or in any of the reports 
submitted to partners or the general assembly, or omits material facts from 
these statements or reports with the intention to conceal the financial position 
of the company from partners or others; 
b) any director, officer or board member who knowingly uses the company’s 
funds in a manner detrimental to its interest to achieve personal gain, 
favoring a company or person or benefit from a project or a deal in which he 
has direct or indirect interest;  
c) any director, officer or board member who knowingly uses his powers or the 
votes he acquires in that capacity in a manner detrimental to the interest of 
the company for achieving personal gain, favoring a company or person or 
benefiting from a project or deal where he has direct or indirect interest; 
d) any director, officer, board member or auditor who fails to call for a meeting 
of the general assembly or partners of the company, or who fails to take 
  58 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
necessary action, as the case may be, upon becoming aware that the losses 
reached the limits set in Articles 150 and 181 of the Law, or if he fails to 
announce the same in accordance with the provisions of Article 181 of the 
Law; and  
e) any liquidator who uses the company’s funds, assets or entitlements in a 
manner  that  contradicts  the  company’s  interests  or  causes  deliberate 
damage to partners or creditors, whether to achieve a personal gain, favor a 
company or person, benefit from a project or a deal in which he has a direct 
or indirect interest or favor a creditor over other creditors in satisfying his 
dues without a legitimate reason.  
Article 212 
Without  prejudice  to  any  harsher  penalty  set  forth  in  any  other  law, 
imprisonment for a period not exceeding one year and a fine not exceeding 
1,000,000 riyals, or either penalty, shall apply to: 
a) any auditor who fails to notify the company, whether through entities or 
persons in charge of its management, of any violations he detects during the 
course of his duties that may involve criminal violations;  
b) any public servant who divulges to other than the relevant agencies the 
company’s secrets he becomes privy to by virtue of his position;  
c) any  person  assigned  to  perform  inspection  of  a  company,  where  he 
intentionally  provides  false  information  in  the  reports  he  prepares  or 
intentionally omits material facts that may affect the outcome of inspection;  
d) any person who, by any means, makes an announcement or declaration in 
a manner that implies the registration of a company whose registration is not 
completed;  
e) any person who, in order to solicit subscriptions or collect the values of 
shares, falsely uses names of persons as being affiliated or will be affiliated 
with the company in any manner; 
f)  any  person  who  intentionally  includes  in  the  company’s  articles  of 
incorporation, articles of association or other documents, or in the company’s 
incorporation  application  or  supporting  documents,  false  information  or 
information in violation of the provisions of the Law, and any person who 
knowingly signs or publishes such documents;  
g) any  partner  or  non-partner  who  knowingly  inflates  or  provides  false 
statements regarding the valuation of in-kind shares, distribution of shares 
among partners or paying their value in full, whether upon the incorporation 
of  the  company,  increase  of  capital  or  redistribution  of  shares  among 
partners;  
h) any person who impersonates a shareholder or partner, or votes as a result 
in an assembly of shareholders or partners, whether in person or by proxy; 
and 
i)  any person who uses the company in other than the purposes for which it is 
licensed.  
  59 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
Article 213 
Without prejudice to any harsher penalty stipulated in any other law, a fine not 
exceeding 500,000 riyals shall apply to: 
a) any person who approves, distributes or receives, in bad faith, profits or 
proceeds in violation of the provisions of the Law or the company’s articles 
of incorporation or articles of association, and any auditor who approves 
such distribution with knowledge of such violation;  
b) any board member who intentionally impedes the call for a general assembly 
meeting or the holding of such meeting;  
c) any person who consents to his appointment as a member of the board of 
directors of a joint-stock company or as a managing director therein, or who 
retains such membership in violation of the provisions of the Law, as well as 
any board member in a company where such violation occurs with his 
knowledge;  
d) any board member in a joint-stock company who obtains a guarantee or loan 
from the company in violation of the provisions of the Law, and any chairman 
of the board of a company where such violation occurs with his knowledge; 
e) any person who accepts to work as an auditor or continues to work as such 
with his knowledge of the reasons which prevent him from carrying out such 
tasks, as provided for in the Law;   
f)  any person who intentionally prevents a shareholder or a partner from 
participating in an assembly of shareholders or partners, or prevents a 
shareholder or a partner from exercising voting rights associated with shares 
or in his capacity as a partner, in violation of the provisions of the Law;  
g) any person who obtains a benefit or receives a promise or guarantee of a 
benefit for voting in a particular way or for abstaining from voting, and any 
person who grants, promises to grant or guarantees such benefit;  
h) any person who neglects to perform his duty to call the general assembly of 
shareholders  or  partners  for  a  meeting  within  the  prescribed  period  in 
accordance with the provisions of the Law;  
i)  any  person  who  neglects  to  perform  his  duty  to  publish  the  financial 
statements of the company in accordance with the provisions of the Law; 
j)  any person who fails to give shareholders or partners access to necessary 
documents in accordance with the provisions of the Law; 
k) any person who neglects to perform his duty to provide the Ministry with the 
documents set forth in the Law; 
l)  any person who fails to record meeting minutes in accordance with the 
provisions of the Law;  
m) any person who intentionally impedes or causes to impede persons entitled 
under the Law to access the company’s papers and documents, or refuses 
to enable them to perform their duties; 
n) any person who fails to publish the company’s articles of incorporation or 
  60 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
fails to enter it in the commercial register in accordance with the Law, and 
any person who fails to publish amendments made to the company’s articles 
of  incorporation  or  articles  of  association  or  amendments  made  to  its 
commercial register in accordance with the Law;  
o) any liquidator who fails to announce the liquidation or its completion in 
accordance with the provisions of the Law; 
p) any person who neglects to perform his duty to list any data provided for in 
Article 15 of the Law; 
q) any auditor who violates any of the provisions of the Law; and 
r) any company or company official who, without reasonable justification, fails 
to comply with regulations and resolutions related to the company’s business 
and activity, as well as with directives, circulars or rules issued by the 
Competent Authority.  
Article 214 
In case of recidivism, the penalties for offences and violations stipulated in 
Articles 211, 212 and 213 of the Law shall be doubled. Any person who commits 
the same offence or violation, for which a final judgment is rendered against 
him, within three years from the date of the sentence shall be considered a 
recidivist.  
Article 215 
The Bureau of Investigation and Public Prosecution shall be in charge of 
investigating offences stipulated in Articles 211 and 212 of the Law. 
Article 216 
The Competent Authority shall impose penalties prescribed for the violations 
provided for in Article 213 of the Law. Any person against whom a penalty 
decision is issued may appeal before the competent judicial authority.  
Article 217 
If a lawsuit cannot be brought against the perpetrator of an offence stipulated 
in Articles 211 and 212 of the Law, the Bureau of Investigation and Public 
Prosecution shall initiate a lawsuit against the company for imposition of the 
prescribed fine.  
Article 218 
The imposition of penalties set forth in this Part shall not prejudice the right of 
any person to claim compensation from any party that causes damage thereto 
due to the commission of any of the offences and violations stipulated in this 
Part. 
  61 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
Part 12: Final Provisions 
Article 219 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the Law, and to the powers of the Saudi 
Arabian  Monterey  Agency  as  stipulated  in  relevant  laws,  particularly  the 
Banking Control Law, the Cooperative Insurance Companies Control Law and 
the Finance Companies Control Law, CMA shall be the Competent Authority to 
oversee and monitor the joint-stock companies listed in the Saudi capital 
market, and issue rules regulating their work, including regulation of mergers if 
a party thereto is a company listed in the Saudi capital market.  
Article 220 
Without prejudice to the provision of Article 219 of the Law, the Competent 
Authority shall have the right to monitor companies regarding compliance with 
the  provisions  provided  for  in  the  Law  or  in  the  company’s  articles  of 
incorporation or articles of association, including the powers of inspection of the 
company and its accounts, and it may also request any information from the 
board of directors of the company or any of its directors, through one or more 
representatives from among the Competent Authority’s personnel or experts 
selected for this purpose.  
Article 221 
All officers of the company shall give access to the representatives of the 
Ministry, and to CMA representatives if it is a joint-stock company listed or 
seeking to be listed in the capital market, regarding activities set forth in Article 
220 of the Law, to the company’s books, records and documents and shall 
provide them with all relevant information and clarifications.  
Article 222 
Employees named pursuant to a decision by the Competent Authority shall 
have the capacity to record criminal offences committed in violation of the 
provisions  of  the  Law,  and  shall,  for  such  purpose,  seize  any  relevant 
documents or records.  
Article 223 
The competent judicial authority shall decide all civil and penal lawsuits and 
disputes arising from the implementation of the provisions of the Law, and shall 
impose prescribed penalties.  
Article 224 
Companies existing prior to the effective date of the Law shall modify their 
status in accordance with the Law within a period not exceeding one year from 
the effective date of the Law. As an exception, the Ministry and CMA’s Board 
  62 

NEW PAGE

Companies Law 
 
 
 
shall, each within their jurisdiction, determine the provisions applicable to such 
companies during such period.  
Article 225 
1. Guiding forms for the articles of incorporation and articles of association for 
each type of company shall be issued pursuant to a decision by the Minister 
within 120 days from the issuance date of the Law, and shall be published 
on the Ministry’s website. Such forms shall be valid from the date the Law 
enters into force.  
2. The Minister and CMA’s Board shall, each within their jurisdiction, issue 
necessary decisions for the implementation of the provisions of the Law. 
Article 226 
The Law shall supersede the Companies Law promulgated by Royal Decree 
No. M/6 dated 22/3/1385H, and shall repeal any conflicting provisions.  
Article 227 
The Law shall enter into force 150 days following the date of its publication in 
the Official Gazette. 
  63 

NEW PAGE
Commercial Maritime Law 
 
Royal Decree No. M/33 
December 12, 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Translation of Saudi Laws 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
NOTE: 
The translation of Saudi laws takes the following into consideration: 
•  Words used in the singular form include the plural and vice versa.  
•  Words used in the masculine form include the feminine.  
•  Words used in the present tense include the present as well as the 
future.  
•  The word “person” or “persons” and their related pronouns (he, his, 
him, they, their, them) refer to a natural and legal person.  
 
   
    2 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Commercial Maritime Law 
Definitions 
Article 1 
In this Law, the following terms shall have the meanings assigned thereto, 
unless the context requires otherwise:  
1. Law: Commercial Maritime Law.   
2. Chairman: Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Public Transport 
Authority.   
3. Authority: Public Transport Authority.  
4. Regulations: Implementing Regulations of this Law.    
5. Vessel:  Any  floating  craft  normally  designed  to  operate  in  maritime 
navigation, even if it is not for profit, including vessel appurtenances which 
are necessary for its operation.   
6. Marine Platform: A maritime facility used for the extraction of oil, gas, or 
other resources, and is considered a vessel under this Law.   
7. Kingdom's Maritime Areas: The internal waters, territorial sea, contiguous 
zone, exclusive economic zone, and continental shelf, as defined by law.
   
8. Person: A natural or legal person.   
9. Vessel Owner: A person who is listed as the owner of a vessel in a ship 
registry in the Kingdom.   
10. Operator: A person who operates a vessel for his own account in his 
capacity as owner, charterer, or co-ownership manager; an owner shall be 
deemed an operator unless established otherwise.  
11. Shipping Agent: A person who, in his capacity as the agent of the operator, 
carries out the activities related to supplying the vessel's needs.  
12. Cargo Agent: A person who receives goods upon arrival on behalf of their 
owners and pays the freight if due, in whole or in part.   
13. Carrier: A person who performs the carriage by agreement, by himself or 
through his deputy, with a consignor under a contract of carriage against 
payment, whether the carrier is the vessel owner, operator, or charterer.
   
14. Consignor: A person who has in his possession the goods intended for 
transport and who, by himself or through another person acting on his 
behalf, enters into a contract with a carrier or a transport operator for the 
carriage of goods from one place to another against payment.   
15. Transport Operator: A person who is engaged in the carriage of goods by 
    3 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
sea under a single contract and a single transport document, and who acts 
as principal.   
16. Multimodal Transport Operator: A person who, by himself or through a 
person acting on his behalf, concludes a multimodal transport contract and 
acts as principal for the sender or carriers engaged in multimodal transport 
operations.   
17. Master: A person who is qualified to command a vessel and assume 
responsibility for its management.   
18. Crew  Member:  A  person  who  is  bound  by  a  maritime  contract  of 
employment; the master shall be considered a crew member with respect 
to the work contract concluded between him and the operator.   
19. Passenger: A person, other than the master, crew members, and other 
personnel on board, who is transported by a vessel.   
20. Maritime  Contract  of  Employment:  A  contract  concluded  between  a 
vessel’s owner, operator, or a representative of either of them and any 
person to work on board in return for a wage.   
21. Contract of Carriage by Sea: A contract under which a carrier undertakes 
to transport goods or persons by sea in return for a wage.  
22. Multimodal  Transport  Contract:  A  contract  concluded  between  a 
consignor and a multimodal transport operator for the carriage of goods by 
two or more modes of transport between two places located in one or more 
countries whereby the multimodal transport operator receives and keeps the 
goods in his custody until they reach the designated place of delivery, and 
he shall carry out this job by himself or through another person in return for 
a fee.   
23. Bill of Lading: A document issued by a carrier at the request of a consignor 
upon his receipt of the goods, indicating transport data and conditions.  
24. Multimodal Transport Document: A document establishing a multimodal 
transport contract, receipt of goods by a multimodal transport operator, and 
the operator’s obligation to deliver the same on specific terms.   
25. Charterparty  for  an  Equipped  Vessel:  A  contract  whereby  a  lessor 
undertakes to place a vessel that is seaworthy and fully equipped with 
supplies, crew members, and fuel at the disposal of the charterer for a 
specified period or for making one or several voyages.   
26. Bareboat Charterparty: A contract whereby a lessor undertakes to place a 
vessel  at  the  disposal  of  the  charterer  for  a  specified  period  without 
equipping it with supplies, crew members, or fuel.   
27. Marine Insurance Contract: A contract whereby the insurer undertakes to 
compensate the insured for damage arising from a maritime risk in return 
for a premium.   
28. Maritime Risks: Unexpected accidents that may occur during a voyage.
   
    4 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
29. Unit  of  Account:  A  special  drawing  unit  defined  by  the  International 
Monetary Fund, denominated in riyal or its equivalent, as determined by the 
Ministry of Finance at the time of the payment of the claim.   
30. Maritime Collision: A collision between two or more vessels or between a 
vessel and any maritime facility.   
31. Maritime Rescue: Assistance provided upon request to a vessel in distress, 
to persons on board, or to objects transported thereby.   
32. General  Average:  Any  sacrifice  or  extraordinary  expenditure,  as 
determined by the master, which is intentionally and reasonably made or 
incurred for general safety to avert a serious risk that threatens the vessel 
or its cargo.   
33. Particular Average: Any loss that is not subject to the provisions of general 
average.   
34. Maritime Wreck: Any vessel, or part thereof, sunken or stranded within the 
Kingdom's maritime areas; or any items missing therefrom in the sea and 
were washed away by the current to such areas; or any vessel on the verge 
of sinking or is reasonably expected to sink or run aground in such areas, 
and there are no effective measures for assistance.   
35. Oil: Crude oil, fuel oil (diesel), heavy diesel oil, lubricating oil, and other 
petroleum products.   
36. Flag State: A state whose flag the vessel is entitled to carry.   
37. State of Registration: A state where a vessel is registered with its ship 
registry.   
38. Ship Registry: An official register where the information of ships and their 
owners are recorded.   
39. Gross  Tonnage:  The  dimensions  of  the  total  volume  of  a  vessel,  as 
measured in accordance with the provisions of the International Convention 
on Tonnage Measurement of Ships of (1969) and its amendments.   
Part 1 
Chapter 1: Vessel 
General Provisions 
Article 2 
The provisions of this Law shall apply to Saudi vessels and foreign vessels that 
anchor  at  the  Kingdom's  ports  or  maritime  areas,  with  the  exception  of 
    5 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
warships, public service vessels for non-commercial purposes, and vessels 
subject to a special provision, except for cases relating to collision, rescue, and 
general average.   
Article 3 
Subject to the provisions stipulated in this Law, the provisions of movable 
property shall apply to the vessel, except for ownership by possession and 
cases subject to a special provision.   
Chapter 2: Nationality of Vessel 
Article 4 
A vessel shall acquire Saudi nationality if it is registered in one of the Kingdom’s 
ports and is wholly owned by a Saudi national. In case of co-ownership, the 
majority of shares must be owned by a Saudi national. The Chairman may 
amend  the  percentage  of  ownership  in  accordance  with  the  Kingdom's 
economic interests.   
Article 5 
A Saudi vessel shall fly the flag of the Kingdom, and shall not fly the flag of any 
other state except in cases permitted by maritime custom or for avoiding serious 
risk or capture.   
Article 6 
Non-Saudi vessels shall not practice towage, pilotage, or supply services in the 
Kingdom's  maritime  areas,  nor  engage  in  coastal  navigation  between  the 
Kingdom's ports. The Chairman may, by way of exception, license such vessels 
to engage in one or more of such activities for a specific period.    
    6 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 3: Ship Registration 
Article 7 
1. No self-propelled vessel may sail under the flag of the Kingdom unless it is 
registered in accordance with the provisions of this Law. The regulations 
shall specify the registration requirements and procedures as well as the 
issuance of the certificate. 
2. The following marine units shall be exempted from registration:   
a)  Vessels of less than 24 meters in length.  
b)  Fishing vessels of a tonnage not exceeding 30 tons, and a length not 
exceeding 20 meters. 
c)  Pleasure and diving vessels of a tonnage not exceeding 10 tons, and a 
length not exceeding 11 meters which are not permitted to sail outside 
the Kingdom’s territorial sea. 
d)  Vessels  of  primitive  construction,  sailing  vessels,  non-self-propelled 
units, lighters and barges, and other floating crafts usually operating 
within the port. 
Article 8 
1. Vessels shall be registered with the registration offices authorized pursuant 
to a decision by the Chairman at any of the Kingdom's ports.   
2. Each registration office shall have a special record called "Ship Registry" 
whose pages shall be numbered and sealed with the Authority’s stamp, and 
each page shall be assigned to a separate vessel where its registration 
number and other relevant particulars are recorded.   
3. A  record  summarizing  the  vessel’s  particulars  shall  be  made  at  the 
registration office and shall be published in two local daily newspapers at the 
expense  of  the  vessel  owner  and  posted  on  the  noticeboard  at  the 
registration office and on the Authority’s website.    
4. Vessel registration fees shall be determined in accordance with the Law of 
Vessels and Floating Units Registration Fees.   
Article 9 
1. A vessel shall not sail under the flag of more than one state.   
2. A vessel shall not be registered in a ship registry if it has already been 
registered in a ship registry in another state unless it has been stricken 
therefrom.  
3. A vessel shall not change its flag during a voyage or while in a port of call, 
except in cases of transfer of ownership or change of registration.   
    7 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 10 
Registration of a vessel requires the survey, inspection, and measurement of 
the vessel, as well as the assessment of its tonnage by the Authority or a local 
or international classification society authorized thereby upon submission of its 
ownership document.   
Article 11 
A. All Saudi vessels shall have a name which shall be displayed on each side 
of the bow and on the stern, with visible Arabic and Latin letters in a color 
different from the vessel’s color. The vessel’s port of registration shall also 
be displayed on the stern using the same letters, along with all information 
and distinctive markings specified by the regulations.    
B. The  same  name  shall  not  be  used  for  more  than  one  vessel  at  any 
registration office in the Kingdom.   
Article 12 
The registration office shall issue the vessel a temporary registration certificate 
valid for one or more voyages, or for a period of six months renewable for up to 
a maximum period of two years.   
Article 13 
If a vessel’s ownership is transferred to a Saudi national outside the Kingdom 
and it meets the registration requirements, its owner may obtain a temporary 
registration certificate from a registration office in the Kingdom or from the 
Kingdom's diplomatic mission in the country where the ownership of the vessel 
is transferred. If the Kingdom has no diplomatic mission in such country, the 
certificate may be obtained from the nearest country where the Kingdom has a 
diplomatic mission. Said certificate shall be valid for a period not exceeding six 
months and shall expire upon reaching the first port in the Kingdom which has 
a registration office.   
Article 14 
1. Any interested party may object to the registration of a vessel within 90 days 
following the date of publication of the registration record.  
2. A reasoned objection shall be submitted to the vessel registration office for 
    8 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
entry into the register, followed by filing an objection claim with the competent 
judicial authority within 15 days from the date of submission of the objection; 
otherwise, the objection shall be deemed null and void.   
Article 15 
If an objection is not submitted within the specified period or a final judgment 
rejecting the objection is issued, the vessel registration office shall issue a 
permanent registration certificate for the vessel upon satisfying the conditions 
and submitting the necessary documents as specified by the regulations.   
Article 16 
A registration certificate shall serve as proof of the vessel’s ownership and of 
its Saudi nationality. It shall be kept in the vessel, and a copy shall be displayed 
on the vessel’s noticeboard. It shall only be used for the lawful navigation of the 
vessel and shall not be relinquished or seized for satisfying a debt or for any 
other reason.   
Article 17 
1. If a vessel’s registration certificate is lost or damaged, a replacement shall 
be issued by the office where the vessel was registered upon submission of 
an  application  by  its  owner  or  his  representative,  stating  reasons  and 
circumstances of loss or damage.   
2. If a registration certificate is lost outside the Kingdom, the office where the 
vessel was registered or the Kingdom’s diplomatic mission in the country 
where the vessel is located shall issue a temporary registration certificate 
that shall be valid for a period not exceeding six months and shall expire 
upon the vessel’s arrival to the first port in the Kingdom.   
3. A vessel owner may transfer the vessel’s registration from the office where 
it is registered to any other authorized registration office in the Kingdom, in 
accordance with the procedures prescribed by the regulations.   
Article 18 
A vessel’s registration shall be stricken off if:   
1. it is wrecked;   
2. its ownership is transferred to a foreign person;   
3. it is captured by an enemy;   
    9 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
4. a judicial ruling is issued to this effect; or   
5. the owner so requests.   
Article 19 
In rem claims relating to the vessel shall be filed with the competent court within 
whose jurisdiction the vessel registration office is located.   
Chapter 4: Registration of a Bareboat Chartered Vessel 
Article 20 
1. A foreign bareboat chartered vessel, used for a single voyage or multiple 
voyages or for a specified period, which is chartered to a person satisfying 
the registration conditions, shall be registered with any authorized vessel 
registration office in the Kingdom. For vessels outside the Kingdom, the 
vessel registration office or the Kingdom’s diplomatic mission shall issue a 
temporary registration certificate.   
2. Each  vessel  registration  office  shall  establish  a  special  register  for  the 
temporary registration of foreign bareboat chartered vessels.   
Article 21 
A foreign bareboat chartered vessel registered in the Kingdom shall be subject 
to the laws in force in the Kingdom. During the term of the charterparty, the 
charterer shall be deemed as the vessel owner with respect to the obligations 
and penalties stipulated in this Law.   
Article 22 
The charterer shall submit an application to strike off the registration of a 
chartered bareboat vessel and return its temporary registration certificate within 
15 days from the date of termination of the charterparty.   
Article 23 
If a bareboat Saudi vessel is chartered to a foreign person, the owner shall 
notify the registration office where the vessel is registered at least 15 days prior 
to the effective date of the charterparty. The registration office shall suspend or 
    10 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
temporarily strike off the vessel’s registration for the term of the charterparty, 
and the vessel shall not fly the Kingdom's flag during such term.   
Chapter 5: Recording Marine Units Exempted from Registration 
Article 24 
Marine units exempted from the registration provided for in Article 7(2) shall be 
recorded.  The  regulations  shall  specify  the  recording  conditions  and 
procedures. 
Article 25 
The relevant registration office shall issue an entry document for a marine unit 
upon submission of its ownership document. Said entry document shall indicate 
the unit’s name, specifications, entry number, name of owner(s) and their 
shares, as well as service assigned thereto.   
Article 26 
The owner of a marine unit may transfer its entry document from the registration 
office where it is recorded to any other authorized registration office in the 
Kingdom, in accordance with the procedures specified by the regulations.   
Article 27 
A non-Saudi national may not own any marine units exempted from registration, 
except  for  pleasure  vessels,  which  may  be  owned  by  foreign  persons  in 
accordance with the conditions specified by the regulations.   
Article 28 
The entry of a marine unit shall be stricken off if:   
1. it is wrecked;   
2. its ownership is transferred to a foreign person; or   
3. a judicial ruling is issued to this effect.  
    11 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 6: Marine Platforms 
Article 29 
1. The Authority shall issue a license for marine platforms to operate in the 
Kingdom's  maritime  areas,  in  accordance  with  the  conditions  and 
instructions specified by the regulations.   
2. The licensed body shall comply with the security and safety requirements 
and environmental assessment procedures for the protection of marine 
environment,  in  accordance  with  the  Environmental  Law  and  the 
international conventions issued by the International Maritime Organization.
   
3. A marine platform shall be subject to periodic inspection every five years, in 
accordance with the procedures specified by the regulations.   
Chapter 7: Vessel Classification Societies 
Article 30 
The  Chairman  shall  issue  a  decision  designating  local  or  international 
classification societies which may be authorized, pursuant to an agreement 
concluded with the Authority, to inspect, survey, and issue certificates for the 
vessels flying the Kingdom’s flag, provided that such societies are members of 
the International Association of Classification Societies (IACS), and meet the 
conditions specified by the regulations.   
Part 2: Rights In Rem against the Vessel 
Chapter 1: Shipbuilding and Ownership 
Article 31 
A shipbuilding contract and any amendment thereto shall be made in writing, 
and shall not be valid, unless signed by the concerned parties.   
    12 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 32 
Ownership of the vessel shall remain with the shipbuilder and may not be 
transferred  to  the  applicant  for  construction  until  the  applicant  conducts 
necessary trials and accepts delivery thereof, unless agreed otherwise.   
Article 33 
The shipbuilder shall guarantee that the vessel is free of latent defects, even 
after its trial and delivery to the applicant.   
Article 34 
A claim relating to a latent defect guarantee shall not be heard upon the lapse 
of one year from the date of knowledge of the defect.   
Article 35 
The provisions of Articles 33 and 34 shall apply to vessel repair contracts.  
Article 36 
1. Any transaction, the subject matter of which is the establishment, transfer, 
or termination of an ownership right, or any other right in rem against the 
vessel, shall be established by an official document; otherwise, it shall be 
invalid. If such transaction is carried out in a foreign country, it shall be 
authenticated by the Kingdom's diplomatic mission in such country.   
2. The transaction referred to in paragraph (1) of this Article shall not be 
effective vis-a-vis third parties, unless it is entered in the vessel register.  
Article 37 
1. In cases of co-ownership of a vessel, the majority vote shall be adopted in 
all decisions relating to its use, unless this Law stipulates or the owners 
agree otherwise.  
2. A majority shall be reached by the agreement of owners of more than one-
half of the vessel shares, unless the owners agree otherwise.   
3. An owner from the minority objecting to the decision of the majority may, 
within 15 days from the date of its issuance, file a claim to cancel the decision 
with the competent court within whose jurisdiction the vessel registration 
    13 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
office is located. The court may affirm or cancel the decision. The filing of 
such claim shall not result in a stay of execution of the decision unless the 
court so orders.   
Article 38 
1. Management of the co-ownership may, pursuant to a decision by the co-
owners, be entrusted to one or more managers from among the vessel 
owners or otherwise.   
2. A  co-ownership  manager  may  perform  all  necessary  transactions  and 
activities  except  for  the  sale,  pledge,  charterparty  of  the  vessel,  or 
establishment of any other right in rem against it, which require the consent 
of the majority of owners.   
3. Any agreement to restrict the powers of the manager other than those stated 
in paragraph (2) of this Article shall not be invoked against third parties.  
Article 39 
Each co-owner shall bear a percentage of the expenses and losses of the co-
ownership in proportion to his share in the vessel ownership unless agreed 
otherwise, and shall have the same percentage in the net profit resulting from 
the use thereof.   
Article 40 
1. If the manager is a co-owner, he shall be liable in all his assets for debts 
arising from the co-ownership. In case of multiple managers, they shall be 
jointly liable in all their assets. Any agreement to the contrary shall not be 
invoked against third parties.   
2. Non-managing owners shall be jointly liable in all their assets for debts 
arising from the co-ownership, unless agreed otherwise. Such agreement 
shall not be invoked against third parties before it is entered into the ship 
registry.   
Article 41 
1. Any co-owner may dispose of his share without the consent of other owners, 
unless such disposal causes the vessel to lose its Saudi nationality; in which 
case, the consent of all owners shall be required.   
2. An owner may not pledge his share in the vessel except with the consent of 
owners holding at least three-quarters of the shares.   
    14 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
3. An owner who has disposed of his share shall be liable for debts related to 
co-ownership until the date such disposal is entered in the ship registry.  
Article 42 
1. If a co-owner sells his share in the vessel to a person who is not a co-owner, 
he shall notify the co-owners in writing of such sale and the price agreed 
upon.   
2. A co-owner may redeem the sold share provided that he notifies both the 
seller and buyer, and pays the price and costs within 15 days from the date 
of notification provided for in paragraph (1) of this Article.   
3. If more than one co-owner requests redemption of the sold share, such share 
shall be divided among them in proportion to their shares, unless agreed 
otherwise.  
Article 43 
1. A  co-owned  vessel  may  not  be  sold  except  pursuant  to  a  consensual 
decision issued by the co-owners holding at least three-quarters of the 
shares. The decision shall specify sale conditions.   
2. A co-owner may, if a dispute arises between the co-owners that would render 
the co-ownership unproductive, request the competent court to terminate 
such co-ownership by selling the vessel. The judgment shall specify sale 
conditions.  
Article 44 
If more than half of the vessel’s shares are seized, the judicial sale shall include 
the entire vessel. However, if a justifiable request is made by a co-owner whose 
shares are not seized, the court may limit such sale to seized shares.   
Article 45 
A co-ownership shall not terminate upon the death, interdiction, declaration of 
bankruptcy, or insolvency of a co-owner, unless agreed otherwise.   
    15 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 2: Liens against the Vessel 
Article 46 
Liens against the vessel shall include the following:   
1. Court expenses incurred in the maintenance and sale of the vessel, and the 
distribution of the sale proceeds.   
2. Debts arising from work contracts for the master, crew members, and other 
persons bound by a maritime contract of employment on board the vessel, 
including social insurance contributions.   
3. State fees and taxes, port charges, pilotage and towage fees, and costs of 
pursuit, guarding, maintenance, and other maritime services.   
4. Salvage-related rewards and share of the vessel in general average losses.
   
5. Compensations  for  collisions,  pollution,  and  other  navigation  incidents; 
damage sustained by port installations, docks, and navigation lines; death 
and bodily injuries to passengers, master, and crew members; and loss or 
damage sustained by goods and baggage.   
6. Debts arising from contracts concluded by the master and operations he 
carries  out  outside  the  vessel’s  port  of  registration,  within  his  statutory 
powers, for the necessary maintenance of the vessel or the continuance of 
its voyage, whether or not the master is the owner of the vessel, and whether 
the debt is due to him or due to suppliers, lenders, persons who have 
repaired the vessel, or other contractors, as well as the debts incurred by the 
operator by reason of tasks performed by the shipping agent.   
Article 47 
Liens shall not be subject to any formal procedure or any specific condition 
related to proof.   
Article 48 
1. The liens stipulated in Article 46 shall attach to the vessel, the freight for the 
voyage during which the debt arises, and the appurtenances of both the 
vessel and the freight earned since the commencement of the voyage.   
2. The liens stipulated in Article 46(3) shall attach to the freight of all voyages 
made under a single contract.   
    16 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 49 
1. Vessel appurtenances and freight provided for in Article 48(1) shall include:
   
a) compensations due to the owner for material damage sustained by the 
vessel, if not repaired, and for loss of freight;   
b) compensations due to the owner for general average losses arising from 
material damage sustained by the vessel, if not repaired, or for loss of 
freight; and   
c) rewards due to the owner for acts of salvage performed during the voyage, 
after  deducting  sums  due  to  the  master,  crew  members,  and  other 
persons bound by a maritime work contract on the vessel.   
2. Passenger fares shall be deemed as freight.  
3. Compensations due to the owner under insurance contracts, subsidies, or 
assistance granted by the State or by any public legal person shall not be 
deemed as vessel appurtenances or freight.  
Article 50 
A lien shall remain valid against the freight if the freight is due or held by the 
master or owner’s representative. The same shall apply to a lien against the 
appurtenances of the vessel and the freight.    
Article 51 
1. Liens relating to a single voyage shall be arranged in accordance with Article 
46 of this Law.   
2. Liens stipulated in each paragraph of Article 46 shall be of equal rank, and 
their share in distribution shall be proportionate to their respective value. 
3. The liens stipulated in Article 46(4) and (6) shall be, with each individual 
paragraph taken separately, ranked in reverse order of the date on which 
each lien arose.   
4. Liens relating to a single incident shall be deemed to have arisen on the 
same date.   
Article 52 
1. Liens arising from a voyage shall have preference over liens arising from a 
previous voyage.  
2. Liens arising from a single work contract for multiple voyages shall be of 
equal rank.   
    17 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 53 
Liens  shall  remain  attached  to  the  vessel  regardless  of  the  person  in 
possession thereof.   
Article 54 
Liens on a vessel shall expire in the following cases:   
1. Judicial sale of the vessel by public auction.  
2. Voluntary sale of the vessel by public auction. In such case, the expiration of 
the lien shall require the following:   
a) Entering the bill of sale in the designated register.   
b) Publishing the sale on the noticeboard of the vessel registration office and 
on the Authority’s website. Such announcement shall include a statement 
of the sale, price, and buyer’s name and domicile.   
c) Publishing  the  contract  summary  in  a  daily  newspaper  or  other 
publication, and on the Authority’s website, stating the price and buyer’s 
name and domicile. Such summary shall be published twice with an 
interval of seven days, in accordance with the regulations.   
d) The  lien  holder  shall  not,  within  30  days  from  the  date  of  the  last 
publication, file an objection to the sale with the competent court.   
3. The lapse of one year, except for liens pertaining to supply-related debts 
stipulated in Article 46(6) which shall expire upon the lapse of six months. 
Said periods shall commence in accordance with the following:   
a) For  liens  securing  rewards  for  rescue  operations,  from  the  date  of 
completion of such operations.   
b) For  liens  securing  compensations  arising  from  collisions  and  other 
accidents or bodily injuries, from the date of injury or death.    
c) For liens securing compensations arising from loss of or damage to goods 
or baggage, from the date of actual or set delivery of such goods or 
baggage.   
d) For liens securing debts relating to repairs and supplies and all cases 
stipulated in Article 46(6), from the maturity date of such debts.   
e)  For all other cases, the periods for the expiration of liens shall commence 
from the maturity date of the debt. 
   
Article 55 
The periods stipulated in Article 54(3) shall be extended for three years if it is 
not possible to arrest the vessel subject of the lien in the Kingdom’s maritime 
    18 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
areas. This extension shall apply only to persons holding Saudi nationality, 
having domicile in the Kingdom, or holding the nationality of a state which treats 
Saudi nationals on the basis of reciprocity.   
Article 56 
Making a payment in advance or on account to the master, crew members, and 
others bound by a work contract on the vessel shall not render their debts, as 
stipulated in Article 46(2), payable before the maturity date thereof.  
Article 57 
1. The Authority may seize the wreck of the vessel as security for the cost of 
removing the same. It may conduct an administrative sale of the wreck by 
auction and recover its debt from the proceeds, having priority over other 
creditors.   
2. A shipbuilder or repair contractor of the vessel who is in possession thereof 
may invoke his right to arrest said vessel as security for any claim pertaining 
to vessel-related work until such claim is paid or a court order is issued 
releasing said vessel.   
Article 58 
The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to vessels used by the operator, 
whether or not he is the owner, or the principal charterer. The stipulated 
provisions shall not apply if the owner loses possession of the vessel due to an 
unlawful act and the creditor acts in bad faith.   
Chapter 3: Maritime Mortgage 
Article 59 
A vessel mortgage shall be concluded only pursuant to an official contract.  
Article 60 
If a vessel is co-owned, it may be mortgaged upon the consent of owners 
holding at least three-quarters of the shares. If there is no such majority, the 
    19 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
matter may be referred to the competent court to issue a decision consistent 
with the co-owners’ interests.   
Article 61 
1. A mortgage effected on a vessel or on a share therein shall remain valid 
against its wreck.  
2. A  mortgage  effected  on  a  vessel  shall  not  apply  to  freight,  subsidies, 
remunerations, assistance granted by the State, compensations due to the 
owner  for  material  damage  sustained  by  the  vessel,  nor  insurance 
compensations. A mortgage contract may expressly stipulate a creditor’s 
right to recover his debt from the insurance compensations, provided that 
the insurers consent to this in writing.  
Article 62 
A vessel under construction may be mortgaged provided that, prior to recording 
the mortgage, a declaration is filed with the registration office indicating the 
vessel’s place of construction, length and other dimensions, and approximate 
tonnage.   
Article 63 
A mortgage shall be recorded in the ship registry at the vessel registration 
office. If the mortgage is effected on a vessel while under construction, it must 
be  recorded  at  the  registration  office.  The  regulations  shall  specify  the 
procedures for mortgage recording and proof thereof.  
Article 64 
If the indorsement of a debt secured by mortgage results in the transfer of the 
creditor’s rights arising from the mortgage to a new creditor, the name of such 
creditor shall be entered into the mortgage record.   
Article 65 
The mortgage record shall be retained until the expiry of the mortgage term or 
for a period of 10 years from the date of its execution, whichever occurs first. 
Such record shall be deemed null and void if it is not renewed prior to the end 
    20 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
of such period.   
Article 66 
A mortgage shall be ranked directly after the liens, and debts secured by a 
mortgage shall be ranked according to their entry dates. If multiple mortgages 
are entered in a single day, their ranking shall be determined according to the 
mortgage date, from the oldest to the latest.   
Article 67 
Mortgage  creditors  of  a  vessel,  or  part  thereof,  shall  retain  their  rights 
regardless of possession, and they may file a request for provisional arrest 
thereof. A mortgaged vessel may not be disposed of after a notice of arrest has 
been entered into the ship registry.    
Article 68 
1. If a mortgage is effected against a share not exceeding half of the vessel, 
the creditor may only seize and sell such share. If the mortgage is effected 
against more than half of the vessel, the court may, at the request of the 
creditor and after executing the arrest, order the sale of the entire vessel.
   
2. In case of a co-owned vessel, the creditor shall officially notify all co-owners 
15 days prior to commencement of the sale procedures to pay the due debt; 
otherwise, the enforcement procedures shall continue.   
Article 69 
The  execution  of  a  judicial  order  of  sale  shall  clear  the  vessel  from  all 
mortgages, and the rights of the creditors shall transfer to the sale proceeds. 
   
Article 70 
1. If the ownership of a mortgaged vessel, or part thereof, is transferred prior to 
making an entry of the arrest notice, the mortgage creditor who has initiated 
the enforcement proceedings against the vessel shall notify the person in 
possession of said vessel of the arrest notice, and officially demand that he 
    21 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
pay the price.    
2. If the person in possession of the vessel wishes to avoid the arrest and sale 
proceedings, he shall, prior to commencement of proceedings or within 15 
days following the notification, inform the creditors entered into the ship 
registry of the contract’s summary, providing its date; the vessel's name, 
type, tonnage, and value; costs; a list of the entered debts along with their 
dates and amounts; and the names of the creditors, and that such person is 
willing to immediately pay the debts secured by the mortgage within the value 
of such vessel.   
Article 71 
1. Each creditor may, in the case referred to in Article 70, petition the sale of a 
vessel or part thereof pursuant to a judgment by the competent court, 
provided that he submits a guarantee of the price and costs. The person in 
possession of the vessel shall be required to appear before the court having 
jurisdiction over the area in which the vessel is located or the court having 
jurisdiction over the port where the vessel is registered, if the vessel is not at 
one of the Kingdom’s ports, to hear the sale ruling.  
2. Such petition shall be signed by the creditor and served to the person in 
possession of the vessel within 10 days from the date of notification provided 
for in Article 70 of this Law.   
Article 72 
If no mortgage creditor makes the petition referred to in Article 71, the person 
in  possession  of  the  vessel  may  clear  the  vessel  from  the  mortgage  by 
depositing its amount in the court treasury. In such case, he may request that 
the mortgage registration be canceled without taking any further procedure.
   
Article 73 
Subject to the provisions of Article 72, a mortgage registration shall be canceled 
pursuant to a judgment or an agreement between the creditor and the debtor. 
In the latter case, the debtor shall provide a declaration from the creditor with 
an authenticated signature indicating the creditor’s approval to cancel the 
mortgage registration.   
    22 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Part 3: Vessel Arrest 
Chapter 1: Provisional Arrest 
Article 74 
Provisional arrest of a vessel shall be executed by a judicial order from the 
competent court and a report to that effect shall be made; such arrest shall not 
be made except for the satisfaction of a maritime debt.   
Article 75 
A debt shall be deemed a maritime debt if it arises from any of the following 
causes:   
1. Damage caused by the vessel by reason of a collision, pollution, or other 
similar maritime accidents.   
2. Loss of life or bodily injury caused by the vessel or arising from the operation 
thereof.   
3. Contracts relating to the operation or charter of the vessel.  
4. Contracts relating to carriage of goods under a charterparty or a bill of lading. 
5. Loss of or damage to goods and baggage carried by the vessel.   
6. Rescue operations.   
7. General average losses.   
8. Towage of the vessel.   
9. Pilotage.   
10. Supply  of  materials  or  equipment  necessary  for  the  operation  or 
maintenance of the vessel.   
11. Construction, repair, or fitting of the vessel, and its docking costs.   
12. Wages of the master, officers, crew members, and maritime agents.   
13. Amounts  expended by  the  master,  consignors,  charterers,  or  maritime 
agents on account of the vessel or its owner.   
14. A dispute over the ownership of a vessel.   
15. A dispute in connection with the co- ownership, possession, or utilization of 
a  vessel,  or  with  the  co-owners’  rights  to  the  amounts  resulting  from 
utilization thereof.   
16. A maritime mortgage.   
17. Fees and charges of ports and waterways.   
18. Insurance of a vessel.   
19. Costs of raising and removing wreckage or goods.  
    23 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 76 
Any person who seeks to recover a debt arising from the causes referred to in 
Article 75 may file for the arrest of the vessel to which the debt relates or any 
other vessel the debtor owns at the time the arrest petition is filed. It shall not 
be permissible to arrest any vessel other than that to which the debt relates if 
the debt is one of those specified in Article 75(14, 15, and 16) of this Law.  
Article 77 
1. If a vessel charterer is in charge of its navigational management, and is 
solely responsible for any maritime debt relating thereto, the creditor may 
arrest such vessel or any other vessel owned by the charterer, and he may 
not, pursuant to that debt, arrest any other vessel of the disponent owner. 
   
2. The provisions of paragraph (1) of this Article shall apply to all cases in which 
a person other than the owner of the vessel is liable for a maritime debt.  
Article 78 
A copy of the arrest notice shall be delivered to the master or any person acting 
on his behalf; to the competent authority at the port where the arrest was made 
so as to prevent the vessel from sailing; and to the registration office at said 
port, provided that such office notifies the vessel registration office of the arrest 
for entry into the register.   
Article 79 
A creditor shall file a claim of debt and validity of arrest with the competent court 
under whose jurisdiction the arrest is made within eight days following the date 
the arrest notice is delivered to the master or the person acting on his behalf; 
otherwise, the arrest shall be deemed null and void, and the operator or any 
person acting on his behalf may petition the court to revoke such arrest.   
Article 80 
A debtor may appeal the judgment of arrest, regardless of the amount of the 
debt claimed, within 15 days from the date of notification of the judgment.   
    24 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 81 
1. The  competent  court  shall issue a  judicial order  to  lift  the  arrest  upon 
provision of a guarantee or other security sufficient to satisfy the debt.   
2. The court may not order the lifting of an arrest if it was effected by reason of 
the maritime debts provided in Article 75(14) and (15). In such case, the court 
may permit the person in possession of the vessel to use it, if he provides 
sufficient security, or to manage the vessel during the arrest period in the 
manner specified in the permission.   
Chapter 2: Executory Arrest and Forced Sale 
Article 82 
1. An executory arrest of a vessel shall not be effected before the debtor is 
officially notified to pay the debt. The notification and the execution of the 
arrest may be made by one notice.   
2. The notice shall be delivered to the vessel owner. If the debt is against the 
vessel, it may be delivered to the master or to any person acting on his 
behalf.   
Article 83 
The arrest notice must include a summons to appear before the enforcement 
judge at the court within whose jurisdiction the arrest was effected so as to hear 
the sale order in accordance with applicable procedures.   
Article 84 
A copy of the arrest notice shall be delivered to the master or any person acting 
on his behalf; to the competent authority at the port where the arrest was made 
so as to prevent the vessel from sailing; to the registration office at said port, 
provided that such office notifies the vessel registration office of the arrest for 
entry into the register; and to the consul of the state whose flag the vessel is 
flying.   
Article 85 
If a judge orders the vessel to be sold, he shall determine the starting price, 
sale terms, and the days on which the forced sale auction shall take place.  
    25 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 86 
The sale shall be effected after two sessions with an interval of seven days. 
The highest bid made at the first session shall be initially accepted and shall be 
the starting price for the auction at the second session at which the forced sale 
shall be awarded to the highest bidder in the two sessions.   
Article 87 
If no bid is made on the sale day, the competent court shall set a starting price 
lower  than  the  first,  and  set  a  date  for  auction,  in  accordance  with  the 
announcement procedures prescribed by the regulations.   
Article 88 
The winning bidder shall pay 20% of the price upon award of the bid and deposit 
the remaining amount and expenses in the court treasury within a maximum of 
seven days from the date of awarding the bid; otherwise, the vessel shall be 
resold at his liability.   
Article 89 
A decision to award the bid shall not be subject to appeal except on the grounds 
of a defect in formalities or bidding procedures. The appeal shall be filed within 
15 days from the date of issuing the decision.   
Article 90 
Claims of entitlement and annulment of arrest must be filed with the court 
conducting the sale at least 48 hours before the auction. Filing such claims shall 
not entail the stay of sale procedures, unless the court orders otherwise. The 
judgment rendered on such claims may be appealed within 15 days from the 
date of its issuance.   
Article 91 
In case of a forced sale of a vessel as a result of the arrest thereof, the winning 
bidder shall not be bound by the work contracts of the vessel’s master or crew 
members.   
    26 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Part 4: Maritime Navigation Persons 
Chapter 1: Owner and Operator 
Article 92 
A vessel owner or operator shall be liable for the actions the master, crew 
members, pilot, and any other person in service of the vessel commit during the 
performance of their duties or as a result thereof. The owner or operator shall 
also  be  liable  for  the  master’s  obligations  arising  from  the  contracts  he 
concludes within the powers vested in him.   
Article 93 
The limitation of liability of a vessel owner relating to maritime claims shall be 
in accordance with the relevant international conventions to which the Kingdom 
is party.   
Article 94 
A vessel owner may limit the extent of his liability in claims arising from any of 
the following causes:   
1. Death or injury of passengers, and loss or damage to property on board the 
vessel.   
2. Death or injury of any other person, whether on land or at sea, and loss or 
damage to any other property if it arises from an act, negligence, or fault 
attributable to any person on board the vessel for whom the owner is 
responsible.   
3. Damage caused by the vessel to installations of ports, docks, waterways, or 
navigational aids.  
4. Losses resulting from delays in the carriage of goods, or passengers or their 
baggage by sea.  
5. Breach of non-contractual rights arising directly from operating the vessel or 
rescue operations.   
6. Damage caused from raising or removing the wreckage of sunken, stranded, 
or  abandoned  vessels;  destroying  the  vessel;  or  eliminating  its  threat, 
including cargo and the like.   
    27 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 95 
A vessel owner shall not limit the extent of his liability as stipulated in Article 94 
if the claim arises from any of the following causes:   
1. Damage  caused  by  an  act  or  omission  by  the  vessel  owner  or  his 
representative with the intent to cause damage, or by negligence with the 
knowledge that damage may occur.   
2. Obligations  arising  from  assistance,  rescue,  or  contribution  to  general 
average losses.   
3. Rights of the master, crew members, or any other servant of the vessel 
owner who is on board the vessel or whose work is related thereto, and the 
rights of their heirs and successors.   
4. Damage resulting from pollution caused by oil or other substances.   
Article 96 
1. If a debt in favor of a debtor vessel owner arises from a single incident 
against a creditor, liability shall be limited only to the balance after set-off of 
both debts.   
2. A creditor may not take any action against the property of the vessel owner 
if the amount designated for compensation is actually placed at the creditor’s 
disposal or if the owner provides a guarantee acceptable to the court.   
Article 97 
1. If a vessel owner satisfies the debts of one of the creditors prior to distribution 
of the amounts designated for compensation, he may replace said creditor 
in the distribution to the extent of the amount he paid.   
2. The court may, at the request of the vessel owner, retain for a period 
specified thereby a portion of the amounts designated for compensation to 
satisfy a debt that the owner establishes that he might be obliged to pay. 
   
Article 98 
Without prejudice to the rights arising from death or bodily injury, no liability 
claim shall be heard against the owner of a vessel after the lapse of two years 
from the date of the act giving rise to the liability.   
    28 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 99 
1. The provisions governing the limitation of liability of a vessel owner shall 
apply to the non-owner operator, charterer, maritime co-ownership manager, 
insurer,  and  persons  rendering  services  directly  related  to  the  vessel's 
salvage operations. They shall also apply to the master, crew members, and 
other servants of the owner in connection with their work duties, provided 
that their liability per incident does not exceed the limits stipulated in the 
regulations.   
2. If a claim is filed against the master, crew members, or other servants of the 
owner, they may limit their liability, even if the incident leading to the damage 
is due to a personal fault committed in their stated capacity.   
3. Limitation of liability shall not be deemed an acknowledgment of liability. 
Chapter 2: The Master 
Article 100 
The vessel operator shall have the power to appoint and dismiss the master. If 
dismissed, the master shall have the right to compensation, in accordance with 
the general rules.   
Article 101 
1. Only the master shall be in command of the vessel and the voyage, and the 
officer who is directly below the master in rank shall assume the master’s 
position upon his death, absence, or inability due to any other reason.    
2. In commanding the vessel, the master shall observe technical standards of 
maritime  navigation,  international  conventions  in  force  in  the  Kingdom, 
maritime custom, and the provisions applicable in the ports of the state where 
the vessel is located.   
3. The  master  shall  maintain  the  vessel’s  seaworthiness  and  ensure  that 
supplies are sufficient for the voyage.  
Article 102 
1. The master shall not relinquish command of the vessel until arrival at the 
port.   
2. The master shall not abandon the vessel or order the abandonment thereof 
save by reason of imminent danger and upon consultation with its officers. 
In such event, he shall salvage the money, vessel papers, and the most 
    29 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
valuable goods, if possible.   
Article 103 
The master shall personally take over command of the vessel upon arriving or 
departing ports, or upon navigating through waterways, and in cases where 
navigation is difficult, even when he is required to use the assistance of a pilot. 
Article 104 
The master shall have the notary power on board the vessel and he shall have, 
with regards to persons on board, the authority necessary for maintaining order 
and security of the vessel, the passengers, the goods, and the safety of the 
voyage. He may impose disciplinary penalties in accordance with applicable 
laws.   
Article 105 
1. The master shall register in the vessel's official logbook any births or deaths 
which occur on board the vessel during a voyage, and shall follow the 
procedures provided for in civil status laws.   
2. In the event of the death of any person on board the vessel, the master shall, 
in conjunction with a vessel officer, make an inventory of the deceased's 
property, and shall preserve and deliver the same to the competent authority 
at the first port of call in the Kingdom.   
3. If any person on board the vessel contracts an infectious disease, the master 
may disembark him at the nearest possible port where he can receive 
medical treatment.    
Article 106 
1. If a crime is committed on board the vessel, the master shall, pending the 
arrival  of  the  competent  authorities,  collect  evidence  and  conduct 
investigations  that  cannot  be  delayed.  If  necessary,  he  may  order  the 
detention of the suspect and take the necessary measures to protect the 
objects that may be used in establishing a crime.    
2. The master shall make a report of the actions taken and deliver it, along with 
the evidence collection report and the objects seized, to the competent 
authority at the first port of call in the Kingdom.    
    30 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 107 
1. The master shall act as the operator’s agent and shall represent him before 
the court; such agency shall include acts necessary for the vessel and the 
voyage. A limitation of liability in connection with such agency shall not be 
invoked against bona fide third parties. The master shall exercise the powers 
vested in him by this Law against persons having interest in the vessel or its 
cargo.    
2. The master may represent the operator only in places where neither the 
operator nor his agent is present. The presence of the operator or his agent 
may not be invoked against a third party unless such party is aware of their 
presence.  
Article 108 
The  master  shall  follow  the  operator's  instructions  with  respect  to  his 
commercial duties and shall inform him, according to custom, of any order 
relating to the vessel and its cargo.   
Article 109 
The  master  shall,  during  the  voyage,  keep  in  the  vessel  the  documents, 
certificates, and records relating to the vessel, crew members, passengers, and 
cargo, as required by this Law and the international conventions to which the 
Kingdom is party.   
Article 110 
1. The master shall keep the vessel's official logbook, indorsed by the vessel 
registration office, to record the information required by the regulations. The 
pages of the logbook shall be numbered.   
2. The master shall, within 24 hours from the vessel’s arrival at the port of 
destination or at any other place where it has anchored willingly or forcibly, 
submit  the  vessel's  official  logbook  to  the  vessel  registration  office  for 
indorsement. Indorsement outside the Kingdom shall be performed by the 
Kingdom’s diplomatic mission.  
Article 111 
1. Upon the occurrence of unusual incidents during the voyage which relate to 
the vessel, passengers, or cargo, the master shall prepare a report thereon 
    31 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
for submission to the Authority within 24 hours of the vessel’s arrival at the 
port.   
2. The Authority shall, if necessary, verify the report’s accuracy by hearing the 
statements  of  the  crew  members  and  passengers,  and  by  collecting 
information helpful in establishing the truth. A report to this effect shall be 
drafted and a copy thereof shall be delivered to the master.   
3. If the incident relates to the cargo, the master shall not discharge the vessel 
prior to submission of the report referred to in paragraph (1) of this Article 
except in exigent circumstances.   
Article 112 
1. If exigent circumstances arise during the voyage, the master may pledge the 
vessel and its freight to secure a loan, and if such security is insufficient, he 
may pledge the cargo as well. In all cases, the master shall not take a loan 
except  upon  obtaining  permission  from  the  competent  court  having 
jurisdiction over the vessel if the vessel is in the Kingdom. If the vessel is 
outside the Kingdom, such permission may be obtained from the Kingdom’s 
diplomatic mission, or from a local judicial authority in the absence of such 
mission.   
2. If the master is unable to obtain a loan, he may, upon the competent court’s 
approval, sell part of the cargo to the extent of the amount required. The 
master or the operator shall compensate the owners of goods which are sold 
based on the current price of goods of the same class and type in the port of 
discharge at the expected date of arrival.    
3. Consignors or their agents may object to the pledging or the sale of the 
goods, and may require that such goods be discharged provided that the full 
freight is paid.   
Article 113 
The master shall not sell the vessel without the authorization of its owner.   
Article 114 
Neither the master nor any crew member may ship goods on the vessel for his 
own benefit without the operator's permission. A violator of this condition shall 
pay the operator double the freight amount for the goods carried on the vessel. 
The master may order the jettison of such goods if they pose a threat to the 
safety of the vessel, or the persons or cargo on board, or if they lead to the 
payment of fines or expenses, after being notified by a crew member of the 
    32 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
necessity to jettison the same.   
Article 115 
1. If the master has to repair the vessel during a voyage, the charterer or 
consignor may either wait until repair is completed or discharge the goods 
upon full payment of the freight.   
2. The charterer or the consignor shall not bear any increase in freight for the 
period of repair. If the vessel cannot be repaired within a reasonable period, 
the master shall hire one or more vessels to carry the goods to the agreed 
destination without any increase in freight. If the master finds it infeasible to 
do so, the freight shall be paid for part of the voyage completed and each 
consignor shall undertake the carriage of his own goods.   
Article 116 
1. The master shall take the necessary measures to protect the interests of the 
vessel owner, operator, crew members, passengers, and persons having 
rights to the cargo.   
2. In exigent circumstances, the master shall carry out any immediate action 
necessary for the safety of lives and the integrity of the vessel and its cargo, 
provided he notifies the operator prior to taking any extraordinary measure, 
if possible.  
Chapter 3: Shipping Agent and Transport Operator 
Article 117 
Contracts and works performed by a shipping agent and a transport operator 
shall be subject to the laws of the state where such contracts or works are 
executed.   
Article 118 
A claim by a shipping agent or a transport operator against a principal or an 
employer shall be made in accordance with the Law of Civil Procedure, and 
may be filed with the court within whose jurisdiction the domicile of the agent or 
transport operator falls.   
    33 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 119 
A claim made by a principal or an employer against a shipping agent or a 
transport operator shall not be heard after the lapse of two years from the debt’s 
maturity date.   
Article 120 
A shipping agent shall remain liable to the operator in his capacity as a paid 
agent.   
Article 121 
A shipping agent shall not be liable to consignors or consignees for the loss or 
damage sustained by the goods received for shipment on board the vessel or 
discharged for delivery to their owners, unless due to a fault attributable to him 
or his servants.   
Article 122 
A shipping agent shall take the measures necessary for the protection of the 
parties’ rights to the goods against the carrier or transport operator; otherwise, 
it shall be presumed that the agent has received the goods in the condition and 
quantity stated in the bill of lading. Such presumption may be refuted by 
inspecting the goods, establishing their condition, and recording the same in an 
official report.   
Article 123 
1. A transport operator shall carry out the shipping or discharge for the benefit 
of the person who assigns him to do so, and the operator shall be liable solely 
to said person who shall exclusively have the right to file a claim against the 
operator.   
2. The transport operator’s liability, referred to in paragraph (1) of this Article, 
shall be limited to faults attributable to him or his servants.  
Article 124 
A transport operator shall be subject to the provisions governing limitation of 
liability that relate to the carrier as stipulated in this Law.   
    34 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 4: Maritime Contract of Employment   
Article 125 
1. The provisions of maritime contract of employment stipulated in this Law 
shall apply to persons working on the vessels engaged in international 
voyages.   
2. Saudi nationals shall not engage in any work on the vessels sailing outside 
the Kingdom's maritime areas, except upon obtaining a seaman's service 
book from the Authority.  
Article 126 
An employer shall pay the wages of the crew members at the time and place 
specified in the contract or determined by maritime custom.   
Article 127 
If the wage is determined per voyage, it shall not be reduced if the period of the 
voyage is shortened by an act of the operator or the master, but if the voyage 
is lengthened or postponed through such act, the wage shall be increased in 
proportion to the extended period. The latter provision shall not apply to the 
master if the lengthening or postponement of the voyage is due to his fault. 
   
Article 128 
1. If a crew member’s wage is paid on a monthly basis and he dies during the 
voyage, his heirs shall be entitled to his wage up to the day of his death. 
2. If a crew member’s wage is paid per voyage and he dies during the voyage, 
his heirs shall be entitled to his wage for the entire voyage.   
3. If a crew member’s wage is a share of the profits, his heirs shall be entitled 
to his entire share.   
Article 129 
A crew member’s wage shall not be withheld or assigned, except to the extent 
set out in the Labor Law.   
    35 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 130 
An employer shall provide medical treatment for a crew member at no cost if 
he is injured or falls ill while in the service of the vessel. If the injury or illness 
arises out of insubordination or other forms of misconduct, the employer shall 
pay the costs of treatment, but he may deduct such costs from the wages due 
to the crew member. The employer’s obligation to provide treatment shall cease 
if it turns out that the injury or disease is incurable.   
Article 131 
1. A crew member who is injured or who falls ill while in the service of the vessel 
shall be entitled to his full wage during the voyage.  
2. Entitlement to wages or remuneration after the end of the voyage shall be 
subject to the provisions of the Labor Law.   
3. A crew member shall not be entitled to any wages or remuneration if the 
injury or illness arises out of insubordination or other forms of misconduct.
   
Article 132 
1. If a crew member dies while in the service of the vessel, the employer shall 
pay the expenses of his burial in his country, regardless of the cause of 
death.   
2. The employer shall deposit with the competent authority the wages and other 
due amounts within 15 days from the date of death, loss, or infeasibility to 
deliver the remains of the deceased crew member.  
Article 133 
If a maritime contract of employment is concluded for a fixed period of time and 
such period expires during a voyage, the contract shall be extended until the 
vessel arrives at the first port in the Kingdom. If the vessel, before entering one 
of the ports of the Kingdom, arrives at a port of call to which the crew member 
is to be returned, the contract shall be extended up to the vessel’s arrival at 
such port.   
Article 134 
If a crew member dies as a result of defending the vessel, cargo, or passengers, 
his heirs shall be entitled to a remuneration equal to the wages of three months, 
    36 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
or  the  wage  of  a  voyage  in  case  of  payment  per  voyage,  in  addition  to 
compensations prescribed by the law.    
Article 135 
If a crew member is dismissed while the vessel is at a foreign port, the master 
may not compel him to disembark, except with a written permission from the 
Saudi mission. The dismissal decision, its date and grounds therefor shall be 
entered  in  the  vessel’s  daily  logbook;  otherwise,  such  dismissal  shall  be 
deemed unlawful.   
Article 136 
If force majeure prevents the commencement or continuation of a voyage, a 
crew member hired for the voyage shall be entitled to a wage for the days he 
actually spent in the service of the vessel,  and may not claim any other 
remunerations or compensations.    
Article 137 
If a vessel sinks, becomes unseaworthy, or is confiscated, or lost, the court may 
discharge the employer from paying all or part of the wages of the crew 
members if it is established that the damage sustained by the vessel is caused 
by their acts or negligence to rescue the vessel, cargo, or passengers. In such 
case, the employer may terminate the maritime contract of employment without 
prior notification or compensation, unless the contract stipulates otherwise.  
Article 138 
A claim arising from a maritime contract of employment may not be heard after 
the  lapse  of  12  months  from  the  date  of  termination  of  the  employment 
relationship.   
Article 139 
Vessels holding Saudi nationality shall not be permitted to travel to areas likely 
to be affected by war risks, acts of piracy, or armed robbery, unless the owner, 
operator, or charterer of a bareboat vessel provides insurance covering the 
    37 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
crew against such risks.   
Article 140 
The regulations shall determine the qualifications and requirements that must 
be met by the master, officers, marine engineers, and crew members, as well 
as their numbers on the vessel.   
Article 141 
Where this Law is silent, the provisions of the Labor Law in force in the Kingdom 
shall apply to a maritime contract of employment.    
 
Part 5: Use of the Vessel 
Chapter 1: Charterparty  
Article 142 
1. A charterparty shall only be established in writing, and shall include the 
vessel’s name, tonnage, class, state it belongs to, lessor, and charterer, as 
well as the place and time agreed upon for loading and discharge, amount 
of freight, and the amount of compensation in case of delay in loading or 
discharge. The contract shall also provide for whether the charterparty is for 
the whole or part of the vessel, and whether it is for a specified period or for 
one or more specified voyages. 
2. The sale of a vessel shall not result in the termination of the charterparty. 
Article 143 
If the term of the charterparty exceeds one year, it shall not be invoked vis-a-
vis third parties, unless it is entered in the ship registry. 
Article 144 
The charterer may use the vessel in the transportation of persons and the 
    38 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
carriage of goods, even if owned by third parties, unless the charterparty 
stipulates otherwise. 
Article 145 
1. A  charterer  may  sub-charterparty  the  vessel,  unless  the  charterparty 
stipulates otherwise. 
2. The original charterer shall, in case of a sub-charterparty, remain liable vis-
a-vis the lessor for obligations arising out of the charterparty. 
3. A sub-charterparty shall not establish a direct relationship between the 
original lessor and the sub-charterer. However, the original lessor may have 
recourse against the sub-charterer in an amount not exceeding sums due to 
the original charterer, without prejudice to the rules of tort liability. 
Article 146 
1. The lessor of a vessel may request to distrain the goods owned by the 
charterer which are on board the vessel to collect the hire and related 
expenses due to him at the port of destination specified in the charterparty, 
unless he is provided with a security for payment as determined by the 
competent court. 
2. Subject  to  the  provisions  of  the  GCC  Unified  Customs  Law  and  its 
Implementing Regulations, the court shall, in case the lessor invokes his right 
to distrain the goods, order the goods to be discharged from the vessel and 
deposited with a receiver appointed thereby; it may also order the sale of the 
goods or part thereof to pay out the hire and hire-related expenses and set 
a date for the sale and determine its method of execution.  
Article 147 
The lessor shall have a lien over the goods referred to in Article 146 of this Law 
as security for the hire and hire-related expenses.  
Article 148 
1. A charterparty shall terminate upon the expiry of its term, unless stipulated 
otherwise. 
2. If the charterparty terminates during a voyage, it shall extend until the end of 
the voyage, and the lessor shall be entitled to the hire provided for in the 
contract for additional days. 
3. The hire shall not be reduced if the vessel is returned before the charterparty 
    39 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
terminates, unless agreed otherwise. 
Chapter 2: Bareboat Charterparty 
Article 149 
1. The lessor shall place a seaworthy vessel at the disposal of the charterer at 
the agreed-upon time and place for the agreed-upon use. 
2. The lessor shall repair any damage sustained by the vessel or replace any 
damaged parts if such damage is caused by force majeure, defect in the 
vessel,  or  ordinary  wear  and  tear.  If  such  damage  renders  the  vessel 
unusable for more than 24 hours, no hire shall be payable for any additional 
period the vessel remains out of commission. 
Article 150 
The charterer shall maintain and use the vessel for the agreed purpose in 
accordance with its technical specifications as set out in its certificates. 
Article 151 
The charterer shall appoint the crew members, conclude contracts therewith, 
pay  their  wages,  and  carry  out  any  other  obligations  undertaken  by  the 
employer, and shall bear the costs of use of the vessel and the insurance 
thereof. 
Article 152 
1. The charterer shall return the vessel at the end of the charterparty term in 
the same condition it was received, with allowance for normal wear and tear. 
The vessel shall be returned to the port in which it was delivered, unless 
agreed otherwise. 
2. The charterer shall return the supplies that were on board the vessel in the 
same condition they were in at the time the vessel was received. If the 
supplies are consumable, they shall be replenished. 
3. In the event of delay in returning the vessel by reason attributable to the 
charterer, the charterer shall pay an amount equal to the hire for the first 15 
days, and shall pay an amount double the hire for the extra days of delay, 
unless the lessor proves the damage exceeds such amount. 
    40 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 153 
The charterer shall guarantee the right of third parties against the lessor which 
arises from his use of the vessel. 
Article 154 
A claim arising from a bareboat charterparty shall not be heard upon the lapse 
of two years from the date of the vessel’s return to the lessor or from the date 
it was stricken off the ship registry if such vessel is wrecked. 
Chapter 3: Chartering an Equipped Vessel 
Article 155 
The lessor shall be liable for any damage sustained by the goods the charterer 
carries on the vessel, unless he proves that he fulfilled his obligations or that 
such damage is not due to his negligence nor that of his servants. 
Article 156 
The charterer shall be liable for any damage sustained by the vessel or goods 
carried thereon if such damage is attributable to his misuse of the vessel or to 
a defect in the goods he has placed on board. 
Article 157 
1. A claim arising from a charterparty of an equipped vessel shall not be heard 
upon the lapse of two years. In a time charterparty, the two-year period shall 
commence from the date of expiry of the contract term, from the date of the 
end of the last voyage if such voyage has been extended in accordance with 
Article 164(2), or from the date of knowing of an accident which renders 
executing the contract impossible. 
2. In a voyage charterparty, the two-year period shall commence from the date 
of the end of each voyage or from the date of knowing of an accident which 
renders the commencement or continuation of a voyage impossible. The 
voyage shall end with the arrival of the vessel to the agreed port and the 
discharge of the goods shipped by the charterer. 
3. In case a vessel is wrecked, the two-year period shall commence from the 
    41 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
date the vessel is stricken off the ship registry. 
Article 158 
A time charterparty of an equipped vessel shall include: 
1. name and address of the lessor and charterer; 
2. vessel’s name, nationality, tonnage, class, and other specifications required 
for its identification; 
3. freight cost or method of its calculation; and 
4. hire period. 
Article 159 
The lessor shall place a seaworthy vessel that is properly equipped to carry out 
the operations provided for in the charterparty at the disposal of the charterer 
at the agreed-upon time and place, and shall maintain the vessel in such 
condition for the duration of the contract. 
Article 160 
1. The lessor shall retain the navigational management of the vessel. 
2. The  commercial  management  of  the  vessel shall  be  transferred  to  the 
charterer who shall bear the costs thereof, particularly the supply of fuel, oil, 
and lubricants, as well as payment of port and pilotage charges and other 
expenses, unless stated otherwise in the charterparty. The master shall 
follow the instructions given to him by the charterer in all matters relating to 
such management. 
Article 161 
The charterer shall pay the hire in full for the period during which the vessel is 
placed at his disposal, even if interrupted due to navigational accidents. If the 
vessel sustains damage that renders it useless for commercial use and the 
repair of which requires more than 24 hours, the hire shall not be payable during 
the extra period in which the vessel remains unusable. 
Article 162 
1. The hire shall not be payable if the vessel is wrecked or stopped by force 
majeure, or by an act of the lessor or his servants. 
    42 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
2. If it is established that the vessel has been wrecked, the hire shall be payable 
up to the date of the last time news about the vessel is received.   
Article 163 
The lessor shall recover his right to dispose of the vessel if the charterer fails 
to pay the hire within three days from the date of notification. In such event, the 
lessor shall carry the charterer’s goods on board to the port of destination in 
consideration of quantum meruit freight, without prejudice to his right to claim 
compensation. 
Article 164 
1. The charterer shall, at the end of the charterparty, return the vessel to the 
port where it was placed under his disposal, unless agreed otherwise. 
2. If the charterparty terminates during the voyage, it shall be extended until the 
end of the voyage and the lessor shall be entitled to the hire stipulated in the 
charterparty for the additional days.  
3. The hire shall not be reduced if the vessel is returned before the end of the 
charterparty. 
Article 165 
A voyage charterparty shall include: 
1. name and address of the lessor and charterer; 
2. vessel’s name, nationality, tonnage, and other specifications required for its 
identification; 
3. type, quantity, and description of the cargo; 
4. place and time agreed for loading and discharge; 
5. freight cost and method of its calculation; and 
6. a list of agreed-upon voyages. 
Article 166 
1. If loading or discharge does not take place within the period specified in the 
charterparty, an additional period not exceeding the original period shall take 
effect, during which the lessor shall be entitled to a daily compensation as 
specified in the charterparty. If loading or discharge does not take place 
within the additional period, a second additional period not exceeding the 
first one shall take effect, during which the lessor shall be entitled to a daily 
compensation equal to 150% of the daily compensation set for the first 
    43 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
additional period, without prejudice to any other compensations.  
2. The daily compensation for the additional periods shall be deemed part of 
the freight-related expenses and thus subject to their provisions.  
Article 167 
1. If loading is completed prior to the expiration of the specified period, the 
remaining days shall not be added to the discharge period. If discharge is 
completed prior to the expiration of the specified period, the remaining days 
shall not be used to compensate for the extra loading days, if any, unless 
agreed otherwise. 
2. An agreement may be made to reward the charterer for completing loading 
and discharge ahead of schedule. 
Article 168 
The master may, upon expiration of the discharge period, discharge goods at 
the expense and liability of the charterer. He shall take the necessary measures 
to safeguard discharged goods. 
Article 169 
If the charterer does not load all the agreed-upon goods, he shall nonetheless 
pay the full freight. 
Article 170 
1. The owner of an equipped vessel, chartered wholly or partially, shall not load 
on the vessel nor a chartered part thereof any goods which do not belong to 
the charterer without his permission. The charterer may claim the freight of 
goods  loaded  without  his  permission,  without  prejudice  to  any  other 
compensations. 
2. The lessor shall have a lien over the goods referred to in paragraph (1) of 
this Article as a security for the freight and related expenses.  
Article 171 
A  charterparty  shall  terminate  without  compensation  by  the  lessor  or  the 
charterer in the event of force majeure rendering the voyage impossible or if 
trade with the state of either the port of loading or discharge is banned. 
    44 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 172 
The  charterer  may  terminate  the  charterparty  at  any  time  prior  to 
commencement of loading of goods, and shall compensate the lessor for any 
damage sustained thereby, provided that the compensation does not exceed 
the agreed-upon hire amount. 
Article 173 
The charterer may at any time during the voyage request the discharge of the 
goods prior to arrival at the agreed-upon port, provided he pays the full freight 
and discharge costs. 
Article 174 
A  charterparty  shall  remain  in  force  without  increase  in  hire  and  without 
compensation if force majeure temporarily interrupts the commencement or 
continuation of the voyage. In such case, the charterer may discharge and 
reload his goods at his own expense, and shall pay the hire in full. 
Article 175 
If the continuation of a voyage becomes impossible by reason attributable to 
the lessor or his servants, the charterer shall only pay the hire for the completed 
part of the voyage.  
Article 176 
1. If it is not possible for a vessel to reach the designated port of discharge, the 
lessor shall direct the vessel to the nearest port of discharge.  
2. The lessor shall bear the costs of transporting goods to the agreed-upon 
port. If the vessel fails to reach such port due to force majeure, the costs 
shall be borne by the charterer. 
Article 177 
1. The freight shall not be payable if the goods are lost, unless it is agreed that 
the freight is payable in any event. 
2. The freight shall be payable if the loss is due to a fault attributable to the 
charterer or his servants, the nature of the goods, or any defect therein; if 
    45 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
the master has to sell such goods during the voyage because of a defect 
therein or damage thereto; or if the master orders the destruction of the 
goods for being harmful or hazardous or dangerous to transport, without the 
lessor’s knowledge of the same at the time of loading. 
3. The freight shall be payable if animals perish during the voyage due to a fault 
not attributable to the lessor or his servants.  
Article 178 
The charterer shall not be absolved from paying the freight by abandoning the 
goods, even if they have been damaged or have diminished in quantity or value 
during the voyage. 
Chapter 4: Contract of Carriage by Sea 
First: General Provisions 
Article 179 
A contract of carriage by sea shall only be established in writing. 
Article 180 
The sale of a vessel shall not result in the termination of the contract of carriage 
by sea. 
Second: Contract of Carriage of Goods by Sea 
Article 181 
1. The carrier shall issue a bill of lading at the request of the consignor upon 
receipt of the goods. 
2. The carrier may give the consignor a receipt for the delivery of goods before 
being loaded on board the vessel. Such receipt may, upon the request of the 
consignor, be replaced with a bill of lading after the goods have been placed 
on board the vessel. The receipt shall have the same effect as the bill of 
lading if it contains the particulars stipulated in Article 182 of this Law. 
    46 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 182 
The bill of lading shall specifically include the following particulars: 
1. Name and address of the carrier, the consignor, and the consignee. 
2. Description of the goods as indicated by the consignor, specifically: their 
nature, hazardousness, number of packages, weight, volume, distinctive 
marks placed thereon, and apparent condition, including the condition of the 
containers wherein they are placed. 
3. Name of the vessel if the bill of lading was issued at the time of loading or 
thereafter. 
4. Name of the master. 
5. Port of loading and port of discharge. 
6. Amount of freight if payable in whole or in part upon arrival. 
7. Place and date of issuance of the bill of lading and number of copies 
produced. 
8. Statement of whether the goods will be loaded on deck. 
Article 183 
1. The consignor shall provide the particulars of the goods, in writing, upon 
delivery to the carrier to be recorded in the bill of lading. The carrier may 
express reservations against the recording of such particulars if he has 
serious reasons to doubt the accuracy thereof, or if he does not have 
available to him the ordinary means of verifying the same. The reasons for 
such reservation shall be stated in the bill of lading. 
2. The consignor shall inform the carrier if the goods are dangerous, flammable, 
or explosive, and shall place safety warning labels and handling instructions 
thereon.  
Article 184 
The consignor shall be liable to the carrier for compensation for any damage 
resulting from the inaccuracy of the particulars of the goods he provides, even 
if he assigns the bill of lading to a third party. 
Article 185 
Marks placed on goods shall be sufficient to identify them, and shall be placed 
in a fixed and clear location to remain visible throughout the voyage. 
    47 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 186 
1. The bill of lading shall be made out in two originals, one of which shall be 
given to the consignor, and the other shall remain with the carrier, and shall 
state that it is not negotiable by third parties.  
2. The  carrier,  or  his  representative,  shall  sign  the  copy  delivered  to  the 
consignor which shall give its lawful holder the right to take delivery and 
dispose of the goods. 
3. Copies of the bill of lading may be made at the request of the consignor. 
Each copy shall be signed and shall indicate the number of copies which 
have been made. Each copy shall have the same effect as the other copies, 
and if one of them is used to take delivery of the goods, the other copies 
shall be deemed void against the carrier. 
Article 187 
1. The bill of lading shall be made out in the name of a specified person or to 
his order, or to the bearer. 
2. A  named  bill  of  lading  may  be  assigned  by  following  the  applicable 
procedures relating to the transfer of rights.  
3. An order bill of lading shall be negotiable by indorsement, and the mere 
signature of the holder thereon shall constitute an indorsement of the transfer 
of title. Such indorsement shall be subject to the provisions of the Law of 
Commercial Papers. A bearer bill of lading shall be negotiable by delivery. 
4. A bill of lading may stipulate a restriction on the transfer or negotiation 
thereof. 
Article 188 
The lawful holder of a bill of lading shall be the person whose name is indicated 
therein; the transferee in case of a bearer bill of lading or one indorsed in blank; 
or the last indorsee in case of an order bill of lading with the name of that 
indorsee indicated therein.  
Article 189 
1. Any letter of guarantee or agreement whereby the consignor pledges to 
compensate the carrier for any damage arising from issuing a bill of lading 
free of any reservations regarding the particulars set out therein may not be 
invoked against a third party who is unaware, at the time of acquiring the bill 
of lading, of the inaccuracy of such particulars.  
2. The consignee in whose name or for whose order the bill of lading is issued 
    48 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
shall be deemed a third party, unless he himself is the consignor. 
Article 190 
1. If the master, prior to sailing, finds on board the vessel goods not mentioned 
in the bill of lading or in the delivery receipt, or if he finds out that their 
particulars are inaccurate, he may take such goods out of the vessel or keep 
them on board upon payment of freight equivalent to that payable on goods 
of the same type, without prejudice to compensation, if any.  
2. In the event the goods mentioned in paragraph (1) of this Article are found 
during the voyage, the master may order the jettison of such goods if they 
may cause damage to the vessel or to other goods, if the carriage thereof 
requires the payment of fines or costs that exceed their value, or if the sale 
or export thereof is prohibited by law.  
Article 191 
1. If the consignor loads dangerous, flammable, or explosive goods without the 
carrier's knowledge, the carrier may at any time destroy such goods, take 
them out of the vessel, or eliminate their potential danger in accordance with 
the statutory procedures. The carrier shall not be liable for such act if it is 
established that he would not have consented to the loading thereof had he 
known  their  nature.  The  consignor  shall  be  liable  for  the  damage  and 
expenses arising from the loaded goods. 
2. If the carrier knows the nature of such goods and consents to their loading, 
he shall not take them out of the vessel, destroy them, or eliminate their 
potential danger, except if they pose a threat to the safety of the vessel or 
the cargo. In such case, the carrier shall not bear any responsibility except 
for matters related to general average losses, where appropriate.  
3. Special provisions set forth in the international maritime conventions to which 
the Kingdom is party shall be observed with respect to the carriage of grain, 
dangerous goods, petroleum, chemicals, and gases. 
Article 192 
1. The bill of lading shall be deemed evidence to the carrier's receipt of the 
goods from the consignor in the condition described therein. If the bill of 
lading contains the description set out in Article 182(2), it shall be evidence 
to the shipment of the goods in the vessel or vessels designated in the 
particulars and on the date stated therein. The bill of lading shall also be 
deemed as evidence to establishing the particulars included therein between 
the carrier and the consignor and with regard to third parties. 
    49 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
2. In  the  relationship  between  the  carrier  and  the  consignor,  it  shall  be 
permissible to prove the contrary of the particulars stated in the bill of lading, 
but so far as bona fide third parties are concerned, it shall not be permissible 
to prove the contrary of what is stated in the bill, but it shall be open to the 
third party to do so.  
3. The consignee in whose name or to whose order the bill of lading is issued 
shall be deemed to be a third party under the provision of this Article, unless 
he himself is the consignor.  
Article 193 
The delivery receipt referred to in Article 181(2) shall be deemed as evidence 
to  the  carrier’s  receipt  of  the  goods  from  the  consignor  in  the  condition 
described therein, unless proven otherwise. 
Article 194 
1. Any person who has the right to receive goods by virtue of a bill of lading 
may request the carrier to issue delivery orders with respect to quantities 
thereof, on the condition that it is stipulated in the bill of lading. 
2. Delivery orders shall be issued in the name of a specified person or to his 
order, or to the bearer, and shall be signed by the carrier and the person 
requesting the order. 
3. If  the  bill  of  lading  is  negotiable,  the  carrier  shall  mention  therein  the 
particulars of the delivery orders he has issued and the goods set out therein. 
If the shipment has been entirely distributed over several delivery orders, the 
carrier shall recall the bill of lading. 
4. The delivery order shall give its lawful holder the right to receive the goods 
indicated therein. 
Article 195 
1. The particulars of the bill of lading provided for in Article 182 may be recorded 
in an electronic transport record, provided that the carrier and the consignor 
consent to its issuance and subsequent use.  
2. The electronic transport record shall have the same effect as that of the bill 
of lading in terms of possession and transfer. 
Article 196 
The carrier shall prepare and equip the vessel with the necessary provisions to 
    50 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
be in a seaworthy condition to carry out the voyage and transport the goods 
agreed upon, and he shall also prepare the cargo-designated areas to carry 
and preserve the goods.  
Article 197 
The carrier shall be responsible for loading and discharging the goods from the 
vessel unless agreed otherwise, and he shall also be responsible for stacking, 
preserving, carrying, and delivering the goods upon arrival. 
Article 198 
With the exception of coastal navigation between the Kingdom's ports, the 
carrier shall not load goods on the vessel's deck unless the consignor’s written 
approval is obtained, the applicable rules of the port of loading or the nature of 
the shipment so require, or there is a custom permitting the same in the port of 
loading. In all cases, the bill of lading shall indicate that the goods are loaded 
on the vessel's deck. 
Article 199 
If the vessel fails to continue its voyage for any reason, the carrier shall exercise 
due diligence to prepare another vessel for the carriage of goods to the agreed 
port, and shall bear the expenses arising therefrom, unless exempted by this 
Law from such liability; in such case, the expenses shall be incurred by the 
consignor, and the carrier shall be entitled to the agreed freight in full once the 
goods reach the agreed-upon port. 
Article 200 
The consignor shall deliver the goods to the carrier at the agreed-upon time 
and place, and the value of the compensation in case of delay in delivery shall 
not exceed the amount of freight. 
Article 201 
1. The consignor shall pay the freight. If the freight is due upon arrival, the 
person who has the right to receive the goods shall pay the same if he 
    51 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
accepts receipt of the goods. 
2. If the bill of lading does not mention the amount of freight payable on arrival, 
it shall be presumed that the carrier received the full freight at the time of 
loading, and it shall not be permissible to prove the contrary thereof against 
a third party who was unaware, at the time of acquiring the bill of lading, that 
the freight or part thereof is still due. 
3. The consignor or the person entitled to receive the goods shall not be 
absolved from paying the freight for the carriage thereof, even if they are 
damaged or have diminished in quantity or value during the voyage. 
Article 202 
Freight shall be payable for goods which the master decides to jettison or 
sacrifice in any other way to save the vessel or the cargo, subject to the 
provisions of general average provided for in this Law. 
Article 203 
Freight shall not be payable if the goods are lost due to force majeure or to the 
carrier’s failure to perform the obligations imposed by this Law or the contract. 
Article 204 
The consignor shall be liable for any damage sustained by the vessel or the 
goods loaded therein if the damage is attributable to his own act or that of his 
servants or to a defect in his goods. 
Article 205 
The master shall deliver the goods upon arrival to the lawful holder of the bill of 
lading or his representative in receipt thereof. 
Article 206 
The delivery of a copy of the bill of lading to the carrier shall be deemed to be 
evidence to the delivery of the goods to the person who has the right to receive 
the same, unless proven otherwise. 
    52 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 207 
1. If a number of persons holding copies of the negotiable bill of lading request 
receipt of the goods, preference shall be given to the holder of the copy 
bearing the earliest date of indorsement.  
2. If the goods are delivered to a bona fide holder of one of the negotiable 
copies of the bill of lading, he shall have preference over holders of other 
copies even though they bear earlier dates of indorsement.  
Article 208 
1. If the person having the right to receive the goods does not attend or if he 
attends but declines to receive the same or to pay the freight or any other 
amounts arising out of the carriage, the carrier may request the competent 
court for permission to deposit the same with a receiver to be appointed by 
the court. The carrier may also request permission to sell the goods in whole 
or in part to collect the amounts due by the owner of the goods.  
2. The carrier shall have a lien on the sale proceeds of the goods to secure the 
freight and other carriage-related amounts due to him. 
Article 209 
The carrier shall be liable for the goods and they shall be deemed to be in his 
custody from the time he receives such goods from the consignor or his 
representative, an authority, or a third party which the regulations in force at the 
port of loading require the goods to be delivered thereto for the purpose of 
shipment. Such liability shall end once the goods are delivered to or placed at 
the disposal of the consignee in accordance with the contract or the rules and 
custom applicable at the port of discharge, or once the same is delivered to an 
authority or a third party which the regulations in force at the port of discharge 
require the goods to be delivered thereto. 
Article 210 
1. The carrier shall be liable for any loss or damage sustained by the goods as 
well as for delay in delivery if the accident causing the loss, damage, or delay 
occurs while the goods are in his custody, unless he proves that he, his 
servants, or his agents have done everything within their power to avoid the 
accident and its consequences. 
2. Delay in delivery occurs when the goods are not delivered at the port of 
discharge stated in the contract of carriage within the agreed-upon period or, 
in the absence of such agreement, within the usual period it takes an ordinary 
    53 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
carrier in similar circumstances to complete the delivery. 
3. A person who has the right to claim compensation for the loss of goods shall 
deem the same to be lost if not delivered within 60 successive days after the 
expiry of the period specified for delivery. 
4. The carrier shall be liable for fire-related loss, damage, or delay in delivering 
the goods if the claimant proves that the fire arose from a fault or negligence 
attributable to the carrier or his servants or agents or due to their failure to 
take the necessary measures to put out the fire and avoid or mitigate its 
consequences. 
5. The carrier shall not be liable for the loss, damage, or delay in delivery 
resulting from any special risks associated with the carriage of live animals. 
If the carrier complies with the consignor's instructions regarding the carriage 
of such animals, it shall be presumed that any loss or harm thereto is 
attributable to the special risks associated with this type of carriage, unless 
the consignor proves that the same has resulted from a fault attributable to 
the carrier, his representative, or any of his servants. 
6. The carrier shall not be liable, except in general average, if the loss, damage, 
or delay results from measures taken to save lives or salvage property at 
sea. 
7. If fault or negligence attributable to the carrier, his servants, or agents, in 
conjunction with another cause, result in loss, damage, or delay in delivery, 
the carrier shall be liable only to the extent that the loss, damage, or delay in 
delivery is attributable to his fault or negligence or that of his servants or 
agents, provided that the carrier proves the extent of the loss, damage, or 
delay in delivery that is not attributable thereto.  
Article 211 
The carrier shall be exempt from the liability provided for in Article 210(1) if he 
proves that the loss or damage of the goods is the result of an external cause 
not attributable to him or to his representative, servants, or agents. 
Article 212 
If the consignor has deliberately provided inaccurate particulars on the bill of 
lading relating to the nature or value of the goods, the carrier shall not be liable 
for the loss or damage sustained by the goods once such particulars are proved 
to be inaccurate.  
    54 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 213 
The carrier shall not be liable for loss or damage sustained by the goods which 
are mentioned in the bill of lading as being carried on deck if it is proved that 
the loss or damage is attributable to special risks associated with that type of 
carriage. 
Article 214 
1. The carrier shall not limit his liability against the consignor if the consignor 
has, before the loading takes place, provided in the bill of lading a description 
of the nature of the goods and their value and the importance of preservation 
thereof. Said description shall be deemed to be proof of the accuracy of the 
value set out by the consignor of the goods, unless the carrier proves 
otherwise. 
2. The carrier’s limitation of his liability shall not be deemed as acknowledgment 
of such liability. 
Article 215 
Any agreement concluded prior to the occurrence of any  damage-causing 
accident shall be deemed void if the subject matter thereof includes one of the 
following: 
1. Exempting the carrier from liability for the loss or damage to the goods. 
2. Shifting the burden of proof this Law imposes on the carrier. 
3. Assigning the rights arising out of insurance of goods in favor of the carrier. 
Article 216 
The carrier may assign all or part of the rights and exemptions granted to him, 
and may increase his liabilities and obligations on condition that the same is 
stated in the bill of lading. 
Article 217 
An agreement contrary to the provisions of Article 215 of this Law may be 
concluded if the exceptional conditions under which transportation is carried out 
justify concluding such agreement, provided it does not exempt the carrier from 
liability for his fault or that of his servants, that a bill of lading is not issued, and 
that the agreement is made in writing on a non-negotiable receipt indicating the 
    55 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
same. 
Article 218 
1. If the goods are lost or damaged, the person who receives the goods shall 
notify the carrier in writing of the same no later than one working day 
following the date of receipt; otherwise, it shall be presumed that the goods 
have been delivered in the condition set out in the bill of lading, unless 
evidence to the contrary is presented. If the loss or damage is not apparent, 
the notification shall be made within 15 days following the date of receipt.  
2. The notification set forth in paragraph (1) of this Article is not necessary if 
the goods have been inspected and their condition has been recorded at the 
time of delivery in the presence of the carrier or his representative and the 
person who receives the goods. 
Article 219 
1. The carrier shall not invoke limitation of liability for the loss, damage, or delay 
of delivery of the goods if it is established that the same is caused by an 
intentional act or omission on the part of the carrier or his representative or 
any of his servants, or by negligence with the knowledge that damage may 
occur. 
2. The carrier or his representative is presumed to have the intent to cause 
damage in the following cases: 
a) If the carrier issues a bill of lading free of reservations with the intent to 
cause harm to a bona fide third party. 
b) If the carrier transports the goods on the deck of the vessel in violation to 
the provisions requiring shipment of the same in the holds of the vessel. 
Article 220 
The carrier may subcontract another carrier for the performance of the carriage 
or  part  thereof,  unless  agreed  otherwise.  The  carrier  who  concluded  the 
contract of carriage with the consignor shall remain liable before him for any 
damage  sustained during  the  execution of  the  contract.  If  the  damage  is 
sustained during the part of the carriage performed by the subcontractor, the 
subcontractor and the carrier shall be jointly liable. 
Article 221 
1. A lawsuit arising from a contract of carriage of goods by sea shall not be 
    56 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
heard after the lapse of two years from the date of receipt of the goods or 
from the date set for delivery. 
2. The period referred to in paragraph (1) of this Article shall be suspended by 
means of a letter along with proof of delivery, delivery of claim-related 
documents, or appointment of an expert to assess the damage, in addition 
to any other causes prescribed by the law.  
3. The right of a person, against whom a claim is made, to have recourse 
against a third party shall cease after the lapse of 90 days from the date on 
which the lawsuit was filed or from the date on which he made the payment, 
even if the period referred to in paragraph (1) of this Article has expired. 
Article 222 
A lawsuit arising from a contract of carriage of goods by sea shall be filed with 
the competent court in accordance with the Law of Civil Procedure. It may also 
be filed, based on the claimant’s choice, with the court within whose jurisdiction 
one of the following places is located: 
1. The defendant’s head office, or his regular place of residence in the lack 
thereof. 
2. The  place  where  the  contract  has  been  concluded,  provided  that  the 
defendant has a place of work, a branch, or agency therein, through which 
the contract is concluded. 
3. Port of loading or discharge. 
4. Any other place designated for such purpose in the contract. 
Article 223 
If it is agreed in a contract of carriage of goods by sea to refer claims that may 
arise therefrom to arbitration, the arbitration shall, based on the claimant’s 
choice,  be  conducted  with  the  court  within  whose  jurisdiction  one  of  the 
following places falls: port of loading, port of discharge, defendant's domicile, 
the place where the contract is concluded, provided that the defendant has a 
head  office,  branch,  or  agency  therein,  or  the  location  designated  in  the 
arbitration agreement, or before the court within whose jurisdiction the port 
where the vessel was arrested is located. Any agreement prior to the dispute 
depriving the claimant of his right to choose or restrict the same shall be 
deemed void.  
    57 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 224 
If it is agreed that a lawsuit arising from a contract of carriage of goods by sea 
be referred to arbitration, the arbitrators shall decide the dispute in accordance 
with the provisions of the arbitration law agreed upon by the parties. 
Third: Contract of Carriage of Passengers by Sea 
Article 225 
1. A  contract  of  carriage  of  passengers  by  sea  shall  be  evidenced  by  a 
document called a "travel ticket", which shall contain the following: 
a) Name of the carrier, and name and nationality of the passenger. 
b) Date of issuance of the travel ticket. 
c) Name and nationality of the vessel. 
d) Port and date of departure, port and date of arrival, and designated ports 
of call. 
e) Fare. 
f)  Class of accommodation on board. 
2. A travel ticket shall not be transferred to a third party except with the carrier’s 
consent. 
Article 226 
A travel ticket may be replaced by another document indicating the name of the 
carrier and the services provided, if the gross tonnage of the vessel does not 
exceed 20 tons, or if the vessel provides services within the port or in areas 
designated by the maritime authorities. 
Article 227 
The carrier shall prepare and equip the vessel with the necessary provisions to 
be seaworthy and able to carry out the voyage agreed upon, and shall maintain 
the vessel in such condition for the complete duration of the voyage, and 
provide proper meals, rest facilities, and toilets. 
    58 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 228 
A passenger shall be present at the time and place indicated in the travel ticket; 
otherwise, he shall remain liable for the fare. 
Article 229 
If  a  passenger  dies  or  is  prevented  from  traveling,  the  contract  shall  be 
terminated and the fare returned in full, provided that the passenger or his heirs 
notify the carrier in sufficient time prior to the specified date of travel, in 
accordance with the regulations. If the carrier is not notified, he shall be entitled 
to receive one-quarter of the fare. This shall apply to the passenger’s family 
members and other persons accompanying him, provided that they submit a 
request to this effect. 
Article 230 
Once the voyage starts, conditions relating to the passenger shall bear no effect 
on the contractual obligations. 
Article 231 
1. If the voyage is not carried out for a reason not attributable to the carrier, the 
contract shall be terminated without compensation and the carrier shall 
refund the fare. If it is established that the voyage is not carried out for a 
reason attributable to the carrier, he shall be liable to pay a compensation 
equal to half the fare; it shall be presumed that the carrier is the reason for 
not carrying out the voyage, unless proven otherwise.  
2. If the voyage is interrupted for more than three days, the passenger may 
terminate the contract and receive compensation from the carrier where 
appropriate. The carrier shall be exempted from payment of compensation if 
he proves that the interruption is not attributable to him. The contract shall 
not be terminated if the carrier transports the passenger to the agreed-upon 
destination within a reasonable time on a vessel of the same class.  
Article 232 
A passenger may request the termination of the contract with compensation 
where appropriate if the carrier makes a substantial alteration to the travel 
dates, the voyage itinerary, or scheduled ports of call. The carrier shall be 
    59 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
exempted from payment of compensation if he proves that he exercised due 
diligence to prevent such alteration. 
Article 233 
1. The carrier shall be liable for any damage that causes death or bodily injury 
to a passenger if the accident occurs during the execution of the contract of 
carriage.  
2. The accident shall be deemed to have occurred during the execution of the 
contract of carriage if it occurs during the voyage, or when the passenger 
embarks at the port of departure or disembarks at the port of arrival or a port 
of call, or during the period the carrier is responsible for the passenger before 
he embarks or disembarks. 
3. If it is established that the accident is due to a fault or negligence attributable 
to the carrier or his servants, the carrier shall be liable for full compensation, 
but he shall be exempted from liability if he proves that the death or injury of 
the passenger is due to a cause not attributable to him. 
Article 234 
1. The carrier's liability for the death or bodily injury of a passenger shall not 
exceed 400,000 units of account if the death or bodily injury of the passenger 
is not due to a fault or negligence attributable to the carrier. This shall include 
the total number of claims for compensation submitted by the passenger, his 
dependents, or his heirs for each accident. 
2. The provisions of paragraph (1) of this Article shall not prejudice the rights of 
the passenger in case of death or bodily injury as stipulated in Sharia or laws 
in force in the Kingdom. 
Article 235 
The carrier shall not invoke the limitation of liability if it is established that the 
damage arose out of an act or omission of the carrier or his representative with 
the intent to cause damage, or out of negligence with the knowledge that 
damage may occur. 
Article 236 
The carrier must have insurance or guarantee from a recognized entity to cover 
his liability for death and bodily injury. In this case, an injured party may have 
direct recourse against the insurer or guarantor. 
    60 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 237 
Any agreement concluded prior to the occurrence of the accident causing the 
damage shall be deemed void if the subject matter thereof includes one of the 
following: 
1. Exemption  of  the  carrier  from  liability  vis-a-vis  the  passenger,  his 
dependents, or his heirs. 
2. Shifting the burden of proof this Law imposes on the carrier. 
3. Assigning the rights arising from the insurance of the passenger in favor of 
the carrier. 
Article 238 
In case of bodily injury, the carrier shall be notified thereof in writing within 15 
days  from  the  date  the  passenger  disembarks  the  vessel;  otherwise,  the 
passenger shall be presumed to have disembarked without injury, unless he 
proves otherwise. 
Article 239 
The carrier shall be liable for any damage caused by delay in the performance 
of obligations under the contract of carriage of passengers, unless he proves 
that he is not responsible for such delay. 
Article 240 
1. A claim for damages arising from the death or injury of a passenger shall not 
be heard after the lapse of two years. The period shall commence from the 
day following the date the passenger disembarks the vessel in the event of 
bodily injury, or from the day on which he should have disembarked in the 
event of death during the execution of the contract of carriage. 
2. If the death of the passenger, which is caused by an accident during the 
execution of the contract of carriage, occurs after he disembarks the vessel, 
the claim shall not be heard after the lapse of three years from the date of 
the passenger’s disembarkment. 
3. A claim for damages arising from the delay in arrival shall not be heard after 
the lapse of six months from the day following the date the passenger 
disembarks the vessel. 
    61 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 241 
If a claim for damages is filed against a carrier's agent or servant, the person 
against whom the claim is filed may invoke any of the carrier’s defenses and 
provisions of liability, and the claim may be dismissed after the lapse of the 
statutory period if the agent or servant proves that the act attributable to him 
occurred during the performance of his duty or resulted therefrom. 
Article 242 
1. The carrier shall be liable for the death or bodily injury of a passenger who 
is transported at no cost, and for any loss or damage to his baggage if the 
accident  resulting  in  death  or  injury  occurs  during  the  carriage  period 
provided in the Athens Convention and is attributable to fraud, intentional 
fault, or gross negligence attributable to the carrier, his servants, or his 
agents during service. 
2. The provisions of paragraph (1) of this Article shall apply to the persons the 
carrier agrees to transport for accompanying a live animal or any other item 
the carrier transports under a contract of carriage of goods. 
Article 243 
The carrier's obligation shall include the carriage of the passenger's baggage 
within  the  limits  specified  by  the  contract  and  in  accordance  with  the 
regulations. 
Article 244 
1. The carrier or his representative shall provide the passenger with a receipt 
for delivered baggage, and record such baggage in a register or special 
notice. 
2. Baggage to be registered shall include cars and other vehicles the passenger 
delivers to the carrier for carriage on the vessel. 
Article 245 
1. The amount of compensation to be paid by the carrier to the passenger in 
case of any loss of or damage sustained by the registered baggage within 
the cabin (the vessel's command room) shall not exceed 22,500 units of 
account, or 12,700 units of account in case of damage to other baggage. 
2. The provisions of a contract of carriage of goods by sea provided for in this 
    62 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Law shall apply to the carriage of unregistered baggage. 
Article 246 
1. The carrier shall be liable for the loss or damage sustained by unregistered 
baggage held by the passenger if it is established that the damage is due to 
a fault attributable to the carrier, his representative, or his servants. 
2. The limits set forth in Article 245(1) shall not apply to items the passenger 
deposits with the master or with the person in charge of safekeeping deposits 
in the vessel if the passenger informs either of them of the importance of 
preserving the same for being of material or moral value. 
Article 247 
The master shall not detain unregistered baggage of a passenger for payment 
of the fare. 
Article 248 
A claim arising from the carriage of baggage shall not be heard after the lapse 
of two years from the date following the day the passenger disembarks the 
vessel or is expected to disembark.  
Article 249 
A claim arising from a maritime contract of carriage of passengers shall be filed 
with the competent court in accordance with the Law of Civil Procedure. The 
claimant shall have the right to choose to file the lawsuit with the court under 
whose jurisdiction the port of departure, the port of arrival, or the port on which 
the vessel is arrested falls. Any agreement prior to the dispute which deprives 
or restricts such right shall be deemed void. 
Fourth: Tourist Transport Contract 
Article 250 
An operator of a tourist cruise shall be obligated vis-a-vis passengers to carry 
out the cruise in accordance with the terms and conditions advertised or 
stipulated in the cruise contract. 
    63 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 251 
1. The tourist cruise operator shall provide a ticket to each passenger or group 
of passengers; otherwise, the cruise contract shall be deemed null and void. 
Only the passenger may claim such nullity. 
2. The tourist cruise operator shall also provide each passenger with vouchers 
for services to be provided on land at the ports indicated in the vouchers. 
Article 252 
The tourist cruise operator shall be liable for any harm or damage sustained by 
a passenger or his baggage in the course of carrying out a tourist cruise 
contract. Such liability shall be subject to the provisions stipulated in this Law. 
Fifth: Multimodal Transport Contract 
Article 253 
Multimodal transport contracts shall be subject to the Agreement on Multimodal 
Transport of Goods among Arab Countries and its amendments. 
Part 6: Maritime Accidents 
Chapter 1: Maritime Collision 
Article 254 
1. If a collision is attributable to a fault by a vessel, said vessel shall be liable 
for compensating any sustained damage. 
2. If a collision is attributable to force majeure or to undetermined or unknown 
causes, each vessel shall not be liable for any damage sustained by the 
other vessels even if one or more of the colliding vessels are at anchor when 
the collision occurs. 
3. If a collision occurs due to a common fault, in which more than one vessel is 
involved, the liability of each vessel shall be assessed in proportion to its 
responsibility  for  the  damage  caused.  If  such  responsibility  cannot  be 
determined, all vessels shall be equally liable. 
4. The vessels involved in a collision attributable to a common fault shall be 
    64 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
solely liable, to the extent of their responsibility for the fault, as set forth in 
paragraph (3) of this Article, for any damage sustained by other vessels and 
their cargo as well as baggage and possessions of crew members and other 
persons on board.  
5. Vessels shall be jointly liable vis-a-vis a third party if the fault results in the 
death or bodily injury of a person on board. If a vessel pays more than its 
share for the compensation, it may have the right of recourse against the 
other vessels for the extra amounts it pays. 
Article 255 
The liability provided for in this Chapter shall apply to a collision arising from a 
fault attributable to the pilot, even in cases where pilotage is compulsory, 
without prejudice to the general provisions of liability. 
Article 256 
1. The master of each colliding vessel shall, without delay, render aid to the 
other vessels involved in the collision, as well as their crew members and 
other persons on board, to the extent that it does not endanger his vessel or 
his crew or persons on board. A master who fails to do so shall be held liable. 
The master of a colliding vessel shall also, when possible, notify the other 
vessels  of  his  vessel's  name  and  ports  of  registration,  departure,  and 
destination. 
2. An operator shall not be liable for the breach of the obligations set forth in 
paragraph (1) of this Article, unless such breach occurs due to his explicit 
instructions. 
Article 257 
1. A lawsuit arising from a maritime collision may be filed before any of the 
following courts: 
a) The court having jurisdiction over the defendant's domicile or principal 
office. 
b) The court having jurisdiction over the port of registration of the defendant's 
vessel. 
c) The court having jurisdiction over the first Saudi port of call at which one 
or more of the colliding vessels arrive. 
d) The court having jurisdiction over the port where one or more of the 
colliding vessels are arrested. 
e) The court having jurisdiction over the place where the collision occurred, 
    65 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
if it is located inside the Kingdom's maritime areas. 
f)  Any other court the litigants agree to file the lawsuit with. 
2. Litigants may resort to arbitration for any dispute arising from collision, 
provided that such arbitration is conducted, based on the claimant’s choice, 
within the jurisdiction of any of the courts set out in paragraph (1) of this 
Article. 
Article 258 
1. A claim for compensation arising from a collision shall not be heard upon the 
lapse of two years from the date of the collision. 
2. A claim for recourse as stipulated in Article 254(5) shall not be heard upon 
the lapse of one year from the date of death.  
3. The periods prescribed in this Article shall be suspended if the vessel subject 
of the claim cannot be arrested and the claimant is a Saudi national or a 
person having a domicile in the Kingdom. 
Article 259 
The master shall abide by the vessel navigation and management regulations 
set  out  in  the  Convention on  the  International  Regulations  for  Preventing 
Collisions  at  Sea  (1972),  and  its  amendments  which  are  in  force  in  the 
Kingdom. 
Chapter 2: Maritime Rescue 
Article 260 
1. The master shall, without delay, proceed to rescue any person in distress at 
sea, to the extent that it does not endanger his vessel or persons on board. 
The master who fails to fulfill such obligation shall be held liable. 
2. Without prejudice to the master's liability, an operator shall be liable for the 
breach of the obligation set forth in paragraph (1) of this Article, if such 
breach is due to his explicit instructions.  
Article 261 
1. Any maritime rescue operation shall entitle the rescuer to a reward if such 
operation results in a positive outcome. Said reward shall not exceed the 
value of what has been rescued. 
    66 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
2. If rescue operations do not result in a positive outcome, the aided vessel 
shall reimburse the rescuer for the expenses incurred in such operations. 
3. If the rescue operations intended to prevent a vessel or its cargo from 
endangering the marine environment do not result in a positive outcome, and 
the rescuer does not receive the reward prescribed in paragraph (1) of this 
Article or the reimbursement stipulated in paragraph (2) of this Article, said 
rescuer shall be entitled to a special reimbursement from the vessel owner, 
equivalent to the expenses incurred in such rescue operations, taking the 
following into consideration:  
a) If the rescue operations extended to a vessel or its cargo lead to the 
prevention or reduction of environmental damage that may affect human 
beings  or  maritime  resources  within  the  Kingdom's  maritime  areas, 
including  coastal,  inland  and  adjacent  areas,  an  extra  amount  not 
exceeding 30% shall be added to the reimbursement.  
b) The  competent  court  may,  at  its  discretion,  decide  to  increase  the 
reimbursement up to 100% of the expenses incurred by the rescuer, 
without prejudice to the provisions of Article 267 of this Law. 
4. Stakeholders shall pay the expenses incurred in the acts of rescue and the 
special reimbursement provided for in this Article, in proportion to their 
respective shares in the rescued property. 
Article 262 
1. The parties shall agree on the amount of remuneration. If they fail to agree, 
said remuneration shall be determined by the court. The same shall apply to 
its distribution among the vessel's owner, master, and crew members.  
2. If the rescuing vessel is foreign, the reward shall be distributed among the 
owner, master, and crew members in accordance with the laws applicable in 
the vessel's flag state. 
Article 263 
A maritime rescue reward shall be payable even if the vessels involved are 
owned by the same person. 
Article 264 
No reward or  reimbursement shall be payable for maritime rescue in the 
following cases: 
1. The rescued vessel’s rejection of the aid provided by the rescuing vessel for 
a plausible reason. 
    67 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
2. Rescue of any type of mail. 
3. Aid provided by a towing vessel to a vessel or to persons or goods on board, 
unless the towing vessel provides other forms of aid not usually included in 
towage contracts. 
Article 265 
1. A reward shall be payable for the rescue of a person in distress at sea, the 
amount of which shall be determined by the court if no agreement is reached. 
Such court may exempt the rescued person from paying such reward if his 
financial condition so warrants. 
2. A person who rescues human lives in a maritime accident shall have a fair 
share in the reward payable to the rescuers of the vessel and its cargo in the 
same accident. No person may combine said share with the reward provided 
for in paragraph (1) of this Article. 
Article 266  
The court may, upon either party's request, revoke or amend any agreement 
relating to maritime rescue, if it finds that its terms are unfair and were made at 
the time of danger and under its influence, if the consent of either party is 
vitiated by fraud or deceit, or if  the reward is disproportionate to the aid 
provided. 
Article 267 
In determining the reward, the court shall observe the following: 
1. Value of the vessel and other property rescued as well as freight at the port 
of destination. 
2. Expertise employed and efforts exerted to prevent or reduce environmental 
damage. 
3. Danger faced by the rescued vessel. 
4. Duration of the rescue operation. 
5. Rescue operation expenses, including any payments made to the crew 
members in compensation for their rescue efforts. 
6. Material damage and bodily injury sustained by the rescuing vessel and its 
crew members. 
7. Liability of the rescuers against consignors or third parties which arises from 
the rescue operation. 
8. Value of the equipment used in the rescue operation. 
9. Type of service for which the vessel is designated (whether a commercial or 
    68 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
rescue vessel). 
10. Expertise employed and efforts exerted to rescue the persons, vessels, and 
other property. 
Article 268 
The court may decide to reduce or cancel the reward if it is established that the 
rescue becomes inevitable due to the rescuers’ fault, or if the rescuers commit 
fraud or theft, or conceal stolen items. 
Article 269 
1. A claim for reward or reimbursement for maritime rescue expenses shall not 
be heard after the lapse of two years from the date of completion of the 
rescue operation. 
2. The period provided for in paragraph (1) of this Article shall be suspended if 
the vessel subject of the claim cannot be arrested inside the Kingdom's 
maritime areas and the defendant is a Saudi national or has a domicile in the 
Kingdom.  
Article 270 
Any agreement which provides for granting jurisdiction to a foreign court or 
resorting to arbitration outside the Kingdom regarding lawsuits arising from 
maritime rescue shall be deemed null and void if the rescue operation occurs 
within the Kingdom's maritime areas and the rescuing or rescued vessel is 
Saudi. 
Chapter 3: Maritime Average 
Article 271 
A maritime average upon which there is no specific agreement between the 
parties concerned shall be subject to the provisions of this Chapter. Where this 
Chapter is silent, the rules prescribed by maritime custom shall apply. 
Article 272 
1. Maritime average shall be either general average or particular average. 
    69 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
2. Average shall be deemed particular, unless proven otherwise. 
3. Particular average shall be borne by the owner of the property affected by 
damage, or the person incurring the costs thereof, without prejudice to such 
person's right of recourse against the person who caused the damage or 
benefited from costs expended. 
Article 273 
Material damage sustained by the vessel or the goods carried on board, as well 
as any expenses incurred thereon shall be deemed general average, provided 
that such damage or expenses directly arise from the sacrifice made by the 
master, or the expenses he incurs. However, damage arising from delay such 
as vessel breakdown, and indirect damage such as differences in prices of 
goods, shall not be deemed general average. 
Article 274 
An accident shall be deemed general average even if it occurs due to a fault 
attributable to one of the parties concerned in the voyage, without prejudice to 
the other parties' right of recourse against the party to whose fault the accident 
is attributable. 
Article 275 
Expenses incurred instead of other expenses which could have been accepted 
as  general  average  shall  be  deemed  general  average,  provided  that  the 
expenses incurred do not exceed the expenses not incurred. 
Article 276 
With the exception of coastal navigation between the Kingdom's ports, the 
value of goods loaded on the deck of a vessel shall be included in general 
average if rescued. However, if such goods are jettisoned or destroyed, their 
owner may not request that they be considered as general average, unless he 
establishes that he did not approve the loading of such goods on the vessel's 
deck, or the loading thereof is required by the laws, regulations, or maritime 
custom applicable at the port of loading, or it is warranted by the nature of such 
shipment. 
    70 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 277  
Goods for which the carrier or his representative has not issued a bill of lading 
or receipt shall not be deemed general average if they are lost or damaged, 
unless rescued. 
Article 278 
Goods estimated in their particulars at a value lower than their true value shall 
be deemed general average on the basis of their true value. If such goods are 
destroyed, lost, or damaged, they shall be deemed general average on the 
basis of the value provided in the particulars. 
Article 279 
The baggage of the vessel's crew members or passengers for which the carrier 
or his representative has not issued a bill of lading or receipt as well as any type 
of mail shall not be deemed general average if rescued; otherwise, they shall 
be deemed general average on the basis of their estimated value. 
Article 280 
1. Obligations and entitlements arising from general average shall make up two 
groups: debtors and creditors. 
2. The debtor group shall include the vessel, freight, and loaded goods, as 
follows: 
a) The vessel shall be included at its true value at the port of destination, in 
addition to the value of the damage it may have sustained. 
b) The  total  freight  of  goods  and  fares  of  passengers,  which  are  not 
stipulated to be payable, shall in all cases be included at the rate of two-
thirds. 
c) The rescued goods shall be included at their true commercial value at the 
port of discharge, whereas sacrificed goods shall be included at their 
estimated commercial value at the same port.  
3. The  creditor  group  shall  include  damage  and  expenses  deemed  to  be 
general average, to be assessed as follows: 
a) The amount of damage sustained by a vessel shall be estimated at the 
port of destination on the basis of incurred repair costs or estimated costs 
if no such repairs have been made. If a vessel is totally lost or presumed 
to be totally lost, the amount allowed in general average shall be assessed 
on the basis of the vessel's value prior to the accident, after deduction of 
    71 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
the estimated cost of repairs which are not deemed to be general average, 
and the proceeds from the sale of the wreck, if any. 
b) The cost of damage sustained by the goods shall be estimated at the port 
of discharge on the basis of the commercial value of the goods prior to the 
sustained damage at said port. In the event of loss, the cost shall be 
estimated on the basis of the difference in their value before and after the 
sustained damage on the last day of discharge at the designated port of 
destination or on the date of the end of the voyage in case it ends at a port 
other than the aforementioned port. In case of sale of the damaged goods, 
the damage allowed in general average shall be estimated on the basis of 
the difference between the net sale value and the value of the goods prior 
to the sustained damage on the last day of discharge at the designated 
port of destination or on the date of the end of the voyage in case it ends 
at a port other than the aforementioned port. 
Article 281 
If any of the parties concerned fails to pay his due contribution to general 
average losses, the expenses incurred to recover such dues shall contribute to 
general average. 
Article 282 
1. If the owners of goods make payments as security for their respective 
contributions to general average losses, the funds shall be immediately 
deposited  in  a  joint  account  opened  under  the  names  of  both  the 
representative of the operator and the representative of the cargo owners 
who deposited such funds at a bank agreed upon by the parties. Such funds 
shall be used as security for any liability arising from general average, and 
shall not be used or refunded, except upon a written authorization by the 
party undertaking the final settlement. 
2. In case of disagreement, the competent court shall appoint a representative 
for the cargo owners and designate the bank where the funds shall be 
deposited. 
Article 283 
General average losses shall be apportioned among the parties in a maritime 
voyage. 
    72 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 284 
1. Settlement of general average losses shall be undertaken by one or more 
experts appointed by the parties concerned or the court having jurisdiction 
over the last port of discharge if the parties fail to reach an agreement. If said 
port is located outside the Kingdom, the competent court shall be the court 
having territorial jurisdiction over the vessel's port of registration. 
2. Experts may seek the assistance of others in the discharge of their duties. 
Article 285 
If all the parties are not satisfied with the settlement, the settlement shall, at the 
request  of  any  of  the  parties,  be  referred  to  the  competent  court  for 
indorsement. If the court rejects such indorsement, it shall appoint one or more 
experts to undertake a new settlement. 
Article 286 
The master may refrain from delivering the goods which must be included in 
general average, unless the owner thereof provides a security sufficient to 
cover his share in general average. If the parties fail to agree on the security, it 
shall be referred to the competent court for assessment.  
Article 287 
Debts arising from general average shall be deemed priority debts. Amounts 
payable to the operator shall be secured by applying liens to the rescued goods 
or the proceeds of their sale, while amounts payable to the owners of goods 
shall be secured by applying liens to the rescued vessel, as well its freight and 
appurtenances. The costs of general average settlement shall have priority over 
any debts that may otherwise be due. 
Article 288 
Parties bound to contribute to general average losses are not jointly liable. 
Nevertheless, if any of the parties fails to pay his share in the average, the 
unpaid amount shall be apportioned among the other parties, in proportion to 
their respective shares in general average losses. 
    73 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 289 
1. No claim relating to contribution to general average shall be heard upon the 
lapse of  two  years  from  the  date  of  the  vessel’s  arrival at  the  port  of 
destination, or the port where the voyage comes to an end. 
2. The period provided for in paragraph (1) of this Article shall, in addition to 
other statutory reasons, discontinue upon the appointment of a settlement 
expert. In such case, a new period of two years shall take effect from the 
date of signing the general average settlement or the date of the expert's 
abandonment of the settlement. 
Chapter 4: Investigation of Maritime Accidents 
Article 290  
1. The competent authority shall investigate maritime accidents which occur 
within the Kingdom's maritime areas or on the high seas if the vessel flies 
the Kingdom's flag and the accident results in loss of life, severe injuries to 
persons, or material damage sustained by the vessel, other floating crafts, 
or the marine environment. 
2. The competent authority shall cooperate with relevant authorities in other 
states in investigations conducted by such states of any maritime accident 
involving a Saudi vessel and a vessel of another state, or which occurs within 
its maritime areas. 
Article 291  
The  competent  authority  shall,  upon  the  written  request  of  another  state, 
investigate  any  breach  of  international  rules  for  the  prevention  of  marine 
pollution, allegedly committed by a Saudi vessel within the maritime areas of 
said state, and shall notify the state of the action taken in this regard, and the 
result thereof. 
Article 292 
The competent authority shall form committees for the investigation of maritime 
accidents, which shall include members with legal and technical expertise.  
    74 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Part 7: Marine Insurance 
Chapter 1: General Provisions 
Article 293  
Without prejudice to the provisions of the Cooperative Insurance Companies 
Control Law, the provisions of this Part shall apply to insurance contracts 
covering maritime risks. 
Article 294  
1. An  insurance  contract,  and  any  modifications  thereon,  shall  only  be 
established in writing. 
2. Under the insurance contract, an insurance policy shall be issued, which 
shall include: 
a) insurance contract’s date and place of issuance; 
b) name and domicile of the insurer and the insured; 
c) subject of insurance;  
d) description, limitations, exceptions, duration, and geographical scope of 
the insurance coverage; 
e) amount and premium of insurance; and 
f)  any other particulars specified by the regulations. 
3. A binder issued by the insurer shall be enforceable on the parties, pending 
the issuance of the final insurance policy. 
Article 295  
1. An insurance policy shall be in the name of the insured, or to his order, or to 
the bearer. 
2. The lawful bearer of an insurance policy may claim compensation, and the 
insurer may invoke any defenses he may have against the insured, even if 
the insurance policy is issued to the beneficiary’s order or to its bearer. 
Article 296 
Marine insurance may cover: 
1. the vessel and its appurtenances, as well as a vessel under construction; 
2. cargo, containers of goods, and any other property on board the vessel; 
    75 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
3. freight, passenger fares, commission, and any similar fees; or 
4. any potential liability relating to properties mentioned in paragraphs (1) and 
(2) of this Article.  
Article 297  
1. A person may not be a party to or a beneficiary of an insurance contract, 
unless he has an insurable interest. 
2. The insured may not rely on the reinsurance contract concluded by the 
insurer. 
Article 298  
An insurance policy shall remain unaffected if a period of 90 days—from the 
start  date  of  the  insurance  contract,  or  from  the  date  specified  for 
commencement of the insured risk—lapses without the insured risk coming into 
effect. In the case of an open-cover insurance policy, this provision shall only 
apply to the first shipment.  
Article 299 
An insurance contract shall be based on the principle of good faith; if either 
party fails to adhere to such principle, the other party may revoke the contract. 
Article 300 
1. The insurer may request that the insurance contract be revoked in the event 
the insured provides incorrect particulars—even if no bad faith is intended—
or conceals essential particulars relevant to the insurance, if such cases lead 
the insurer to underestimate the potential risk. 
2. The competent judicial authority may, in the cases stipulated in paragraph 
(1) of this Article, award the insurer an amount equal  to the insurance 
premium if it is established that the insured acted in bad faith, or an amount 
not exceeding half the insurance premium in the absence of bad faith. 
Article 301 
1. The insured shall notify the insurer of any circumstances that arise during 
the validity of the insurance policy which may increase the risk undertaken 
by the insurer within three working days from the date of his knowledge 
thereof; otherwise, the insurer may terminate the contract. 
    76 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
2. If the notification is made within the period specified in paragraph (1) of this 
Article,  and  the  increase  in  risk  is  not  attributable  to  the  insured,  the 
insurance contract shall remain valid, and the insurance premium may be 
increased. 
3. If the increase in risk is attributable to the insured, the insurer may either 
terminate the contract within three working days from the date of being 
notified of the increased risk, or maintain the contract with an increase in the 
insurance  premium  against  the  increased  risk.  In  the  former  case,  the 
competent judicial authority may award the insurer, upon his request, an 
amount equal to the insurance premium.  
Article 302 
1. The insurer may request that the insurance contract be revoked if the amount 
of insurance coverage exceeds the value of the insured items, and it is 
established that the insured or his agent have committed fraud. In such case, 
the  competent  judicial  authority  may  award  the  insurer  an  amount  not 
exceeding the insurance premium, taking into consideration any damage 
sustained by the insurer. In the absence of fraud, the contract shall remain 
valid to the extent of the value of the insured items.  
2. If the amount of insurance coverage is lower than the actual value of the 
insured items, the insurer's liability shall be limited to the amount of insurance 
coverage. 
Article 303  
1. An insurance contract concluded after the loss or arrival of the insured items 
shall be deemed void if it is established that knowledge of such loss or arrival 
had, prior to concluding the contract, reached the place where the contract 
was signed or where the insurer and the insured were located. 
2. If an insurance contract is contingent on good or bad news, it shall not be 
revoked, unless it is established, prior to concluding the contract, that the 
insured had knowledge of the loss of the insured items, or that the insurer 
had knowledge of their arrival. 
Article 304 
If the risk insured against is covered by multiple insurers in a single contract, 
the liability of each insurer shall be limited to his share in the insurance 
coverage; the insurers shall not be held jointly liable. 
    77 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 305 
1. In cases other than fraud, insurance contracts shall be deemed valid if a risk 
is insured against by multiple contracts— whether or not concluded on the 
same date—of which the aggregate amount of insurance coverage exceeds 
the actual value of the insured items. The insured may—to the extent of the 
damage sustained and not exceeding the actual value of the insured items—
have recourse against any of the insurers who are not jointly liable for the 
amount incurred by each insurer in proportion to the actual value of the 
insured items.  
2. The insured shall, when claiming damages, disclose to the insurer any other 
insurance contracts he is aware of; otherwise, his claim shall be denied.  
3. Each insurer shall have recourse against the other insurers, demanding that 
each settles his respective share of the damages, in proportion to his amount 
of coverage. If any of the insurers is insolvent, his share shall be divided 
proportionately among the solvent insurers.  
4. If fraud is established against the insured, each of the multiple insurance 
contracts shall be revocable if the insurer so request. The competent judicial 
authority may, upon revoking a contract, award those who are eligible an 
appropriate compensation not exceeding the insurance premium.  
Article 306 
The insurer shall be liable for: 
1. material damage sustained by the insured items due to a maritime risk or an 
event of force majeure, if such risk or event is covered by the insurance 
contract;  
2. the share of the insured property in general average, unless the loss arises 
from a risk not covered by the insurance contract; and 
3. costs related to an insured risk that are incurred to prevent or minimize 
material damage to the insured property.  
Article 307  
1. The insurer shall be liable for material damage sustained by the insured 
items due to a fault attributable to the insured or his servants on land; unless 
the insurer establishes that the damage is attributable to an intentional or 
gross fault by the insured, or due to his negligence and failure to exercise 
reasonable care necessary for the protection of the insured items. 
2. Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 330(2), the insurer shall be liable 
for any material damage sustained by the insured items due to a fault 
attributable to the master or crew members.  
    78 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 308  
The insurer shall remain liable for any risks covered by the insurance contract 
if it becomes necessary to change the itinerary, voyage, or vessel. If the change 
in the voyage or itinerary is not necessary, the insurer shall only be liable for 
accidents occurring along the designated route or the itinerary usually followed 
to complete the transportation process, unless agreed otherwise. 
Article 309  
1. Insurance contracts shall not cover risks associated with civil or interstate 
war, piracy, plunder, rebellions, revolutions, strikes and lockouts, as well as 
risks arising from acts of sabotage and terrorism, and any damage directly 
or indirectly arising from nuclear radiation or explosions, regardless of their 
cause, unless agreed otherwise. 
2. Notwithstanding Article 331, insurance contracts shall not cover damage 
caused by the insured items to other property or persons. 
Article 310  
If the insurance contract covers war risks, it shall cover damage sustained by 
the insured items which results from acts of aggression or revenge, capture, 
plunder, suspension, and duress, if committed by governments or authorities, 
whether recognized or not, or damage which results from explosion of mines or 
other implements of war, whether the war is undeclared or has ended.  
Article 311  
If it is infeasible to determine whether the damage is due to a war risk or a 
maritime risk, it shall be deemed to have resulted from a maritime risk, unless 
proven otherwise. 
Article 312  
The insurer shall not be held liable for: 
1. material damage arising from a defect in the insured items, inadequate 
packaging, or baling, without prejudice to the provisions of Article 330(1); 
2. normal loss sustained by goods during a voyage;  
3. material damage arising from fines, confiscation, placing under custody, 
plunder, sanitation measures, sterilization, breach of blockade, smuggling, 
    79 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
or illicit trade;  
4. compensations for arrest, or security for lifting the same; or 
5. non-material damage not directly sustained by the insured items, such as 
the delay or refusal of all or some crew members to perform their duties, as 
well as price and any other impediments that may affect the commercial 
transaction undertaken by the insured.  
Article 313  
1. The insurer may, by agreement, be exempted from paying damages within 
the limits specified by the insurance contract; the exempted amount shall be 
deducted from the amount of compensation. However, compensation may, 
upon agreement, be due in full if the damage exceeds the specified limit of 
exemption. 
2. In all cases, the amount of exemption shall be calculated after deducting the 
normal loss sustained by the insured items during the voyage.  
Article 314 
The insured shall be responsible for:  
1. paying insurance premiums and costs at the agreed time and place; 
2. exercising reasonable care to protect the insured item; and 
3. providing, at the time of contracting, accurate information relating to the 
circumstances he is aware of to enable the insurer to assess insured risks, 
and notifying the insurer, during the validity of the contract and within the 
limits of his knowledge, of any increase in the insured risks. 
Article 315 
1. If the insured defaults in the payment of the insurance premium, the insurer 
may terminate the contract. Termination shall only be effective upon the 
lapse of 30 days from the date the insured is served the notice of payment 
and the notice of insurance contract termination. The notice of payment may 
be served by registered mail, or by any other means available to the insurer 
to obtain proof that the notice was delivered to the insured at the last address 
known to the insurer. The notice of contract termination and the notice of 
payment may be delivered by the same method.  
2. Termination shall not affect the rights of bona fide third parties to whom the 
ownership of the insurance policy is transferred prior to the occurrence of 
any accident, and prior to the notification of contract termination.  
    80 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 316 
The  insured  shall,  upon  the  occurrence  of  an  insured  risk,  endeavor  to 
safeguard the insured objects to the best of his ability, and shall take all 
necessary measures to preserve the insurer's right of recourse against third 
parties  who  are  liable  for  the  damage.  If  the  insured  fails  to  fulfill  such 
obligations due to his negligence, he shall be liable for the damage sustained 
by the insurer. 
Article 317  
Damage shall be settled through compensation, unless the insured decides to 
abandon  the  insured item  to  the insurer  in  cases  where  abandonment  is 
permissible either by agreement or by law. 
Article 318 
The insurer shall not be obligated to repair or replace the insured items. 
Article 319 
The insurer shall pay the insured item’s share in general average and rescue 
expenses, in proportion to the value of the insured item, after deduction of the 
particular average, if any, to be borne by the insured. 
Article 320  
Items insured partially or conditionally may not be abandoned, nor may they be 
retracted without the insurer's approval. Abandonment shall entail transfer of 
the ownership of the insured items to the insurer, who in turn, shall be obligated 
to pay the full amount of insurance. Transfer of ownership shall take effect from 
the day the insured notifies the insurer of his intent of abandonment. The insurer 
may, without prejudice to his obligation to pay the full amount of insurance, 
refuse the transfer of ownership of the insured items to him. 
Article 321  
The insured shall notify the insurer of his intent of abandonment by judicial 
notice, registered mail, or by any other means where knowledge of such intent 
    81 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
can be established. Notification of the intent of abandonment shall be made 
within three months from the date the insured becomes aware of the accident 
justifying abandonment, or from the date stipulated in Articles 336 and 349 of 
this Law. 
Article 322  
The insured shall, upon notification of his intent of abandonment, disclose all 
the insurance contracts he has concluded or he has knowledge of. 
Article 323  
If the insured submits, in bad faith, a false claim regarding an accident which 
causes harm to the insurer, his right to the amount of insurance may be forfeited 
in whole or in part pursuant to a judicial ruling. 
Article 324  
The insurer shall, within the limits of the compensation paid, subrogate the 
insured regarding all rights arising from the damage covered by the insurance. 
Article 325  
1. No claim arising from an insurance contract may be heard after the lapse of 
two years. Said period shall commence from: 
a) the date the insurance premium is due, if the claim relates to the payment 
thereof; 
b) the  date  of  the  accident  triggering  the  claim,  if  the  claim  relates  to 
compensations for damage sustained by the vessel; 
c) the date of the vessel’s arrival or scheduled arrival, if the claim relates to 
compensations for damage sustained by the goods. If the accident occurs 
after the vessel's arrival or scheduled arrival, the period shall commence 
from the date of the accident; 
d) the date of the accident, if the claim relates to settlement of damages 
through abandonment. If the contract provides for a grace period for filing 
an abandonment claim, the two-year period shall commence from the date 
the grace period expires; 
e) the  date  of  the  insured’s  payment  where  the  claim  relates  to  his 
contribution to general average losses or the reimbursement of rescue 
expenses; or 
    82 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
f)  the date of filing a claim against the insured by a third party, or the date of 
payment by the insured in case of a claim filed by the insured against the 
insurer to recover payments made to a third party who has recourse 
against him. 
2. No claim for an undue payment made under an insurance contract may be 
heard after the lapse of two years from the date of payment. 
3. In all cases, the period specified in this Article shall discontinue upon filing a 
claim by registered mail, delivering the claim-associated documents, or 
assigning  an  expert  to  assess  the  damage,  in  addition  to  the  legally 
prescribed grounds for discontinuance. 
Chapter 2: Vessel Insurance 
Article 326  
An  insurance  contract  may  cover  a  vessel  for  a  single  voyage,  multiple 
consecutive voyages, or for a fixed period. An insurance contract may also 
cover a vessel under construction. 
Article 327  
1. The  insurance  contract  covering  a  voyage  shall  take  effect  from  the 
commencement of cargo loading to the completion of cargo discharge. In 
any event, the coverage shall not exceed 15 days from the date of the 
vessel's arrival at the designated destination, and the master's declaration of 
its readiness for discharge. 
2. The insurance contract covering a vessel without cargo shall take effect from 
the time the vessel departs until it anchors at the designated destination.  
Article 328  
If  the  insurance  contract  covers  multiple  consecutive  voyages,  the  place 
specified in the insurance policy as the final destination shall be deemed the 
place where the validity of the insurance coverage expires.  
Article 329  
If the insurance contract is for a specified period, the insurance coverage shall 
take effect against risks that occur on the first day of coverage until the end of 
the last day; a day shall be calculated on a 24-hour basis, commencing at the 
    83 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
time of concluding the contract, according to the time zone of the place where 
the contract is concluded. 
Article 330  
1. The insurer shall not be liable for damage arising from normal erosion of a 
vessel hull, or an inherent defect therein, unless the defect is latent.  
2. The insurer shall not be liable for damage arising from an intentional fault 
attributable to the master. 
Article 331  
Excluding injuries sustained by individuals, the insurer shall cover the insured 
against third-party claims, in case the insured vessel collides with another 
vessel, or with a fixed, moving, or floating object. 
Article 332  
1. If  the  vessel’s  insurance  contract  covers  a  single  voyage  or  multiple 
consecutive  voyages,  the  insurer  shall  be  entitled  to  receive  the  full 
insurance premium upon commencement of the insured risks. 
2. If the insurance contract is for a specified period and the vessel is a total loss 
or the insured decides to abandon the vessel to the insurer, the insurer shall 
be  entitled  to  receive  the  insurance  premium  for  the  entire  period  of 
coverage, provided that the loss or abandonment is covered. If the loss or 
abandonment is not covered, the insurer shall be entitled to a portion of the 
insurance premium which corresponds to the period between the date of 
commencement of the insured risks and the date of the accident which 
caused the vessel's loss or declaration of its abandonment. 
Article 333  
1. The insurer shall, within the limits of the insurance amount, cover damage 
resulting from any accident which occurs during the validity of the insurance 
policy, even if such damage arises from multiple accidents. 
2. The insurer may, by agreement, have the right to request a supplementary 
premium upon the occurrence of each accident. 
Article 334  
If the insurance contract is settled by compensation, the insurer shall be liable 
    84 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
for the costs of replacing parts and making the necessary repairs to make the 
vessel seaworthy, but not for other compensations arising from the vessel’s 
depreciation or being out of commission, or for any other reason. 
Article 335  
1. Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 302 of this Law, if the value of 
a vessel is agreed upon in the insurance contract, such value may not be 
contested except in the case of contribution to general average losses or 
maritime rescue expenses, in accordance with Article 319 of this Law. 
2. The agreed value shall include the vessel's hull and engines, as well as the 
appurtenances owned by the insured, including the supplies and the costs 
of equipping the vessel for the voyage.  
3. Any  insurance  contract,  irrespective  of  its  date,  which  covers  only  the 
appurtenances owned by the insured shall, in the event of total loss or 
abandonment, result in a reduction of the agreed value of the vessel equal 
to the value of the insured appurtenances.  
Article 336  
1. The insured may abandon the vessel to the insurer if: 
a) the vessel is a total loss;  
b) the cost of repair or rescue of the vessel amounts to 75% or more of its 
value as specified in the insurance policy;  
c) a three-month period lapses from the last time news about the vessel is 
received and it is presumed to have been lost as of the date of receipt of 
such news; or 
d) the vessel sustains damage that is irreparable or cannot be repaired due 
to the lack of material resources at the vessel’s location, unless it can be 
towed to a location where it can be repaired.  
2. If the insurance covers war risks, the insured may abandon the vessel in 
case it is captured, arrested, or suspended by order of the public authorities, 
and he was unable to recover it within four months from notifying the insurer 
of the incident. 
Article 337  
1. If  the  insurance  contract  covers  multiple  vessels  belonging  to  a  single 
operator, each vessel shall be deemed as belonging to a separate operator. 
2. To the insurer, goods and other property owned by the operator shall be 
deemed as if owned by a third party.  
    85 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 338  
1. If the ownership of a vessel is transferred, or if it is chartered unequipped, 
the insurance contract shall remain valid for the benefit of the new owner or 
charterer, provided the insurer is notified thereof within 15 days, excluding 
official holidays, from the date of transfer of ownership or charter. The new 
owner or charterer shall fulfill the obligations the insured had towards the 
insurer under the insurance contract.  
2. The insurer may, within one month from the date of notification of the transfer 
of ownership or charter, request termination of the contract; in such case, 
the contract shall remain valid for a period of 15 days from the date of such 
request.  
3. The original insured shall remain obligated against the insurer to pay the 
insurance premiums due up to the date of transfer of ownership or charter.  
4. If the insurer is not notified of the transfer of ownership or charter within the 
period specified in paragraph (1) of this Article, the insurance shall be 
deemed suspended as of the date of expiry of said period. The validity of the 
insurance contract shall be restored within 24 hours after notification, and 
the insurer shall reimburse the insurance premium paid for the period of 
suspension. 
5. The provisions of this Article shall not apply to a co-owned vessel, unless the 
transfer of ownership involves the majority of shares.  
Article 339 
The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to an insurance contract covering 
only the period of time the insured vessel is in a port, anchorage, dry dock, or 
any other location. 
Chapter 3: Insurance on Freight 
Article 340 
1. If an insurance contract on freight does not provide that the entire value of 
freight be due in all circumstances, the insurance shall cover only 60% 
thereof, unless agreed otherwise. 
2. With respect to insurance on freight, the insurer shall, within the limits of the 
insurance amount, cover only the share of freight in general average and 
recovery thereof in case the vessel is abandoned due to an insured risk, on 
the condition that the insured, in the circumstances set forth in Article 336(b) 
and (d), establishes that he was unable to evacuate the goods to the place 
    86 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
of destination. 
Article 341 
1. If the subject of insurance relates to rewards for assistance and rescue, the 
insurer  shall,  within  the  limits  of  the  insurance  amount,  reimburse  the 
expenses incurred for vessel assistance or rescue, as well as any reward 
arising from an insured risk. Said insurance shall be effective only if the 
amount specified in the vessel’s insurance policy is insufficient. 
2. If the subject of insurance specifically relates to vessel floating expenses, 
the insurer shall, within the limits of the insurance amount, reimburse said 
expenses in cases where the insured may abandon the vessel due to an 
insured risk. 
Article 342 
If the subject of insurance relates to the crew members’ wages, expenses, and 
repatriation costs, as well as anticipated profits, the insurer shall reimburse any 
damages arising from a maritime risk covered in the insurance, provided that 
the insured establishes that such damage is related to the subject of insurance. 
Chapter 4: Insurance on Goods 
Article 343  
Insurance on goods shall take effect either by virtue of a single-voyage policy, 
or an open-cover policy. 
Article 344 
Goods shall remain covered by insurance without interruption at any location 
during the voyage as specified by the contracting parties in the insurance policy. 
Nevertheless, the insurer may, subject to the provisions of Article 301 of this 
Law, require the insurance premium to be increased in the event that the goods 
sojourn at a port, or in case the vessel takes longer time to put into a port or 
changes its itinerary. 
    87 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 345  
If, during a voyage, the insured goods are carried in transit by land, river, or air, 
the provisions of marine insurance shall apply during the period of said transit, 
unless agreed otherwise. 
Article 346 
A vessel transporting oil to or from the Kingdom shall hold a civil liability 
insurance  certificate  to  cover  liabilities  for  any  damage  arising  from 
transportation. 
Article 347  
The  amount  of  insurance  shall  not  exceed  the  maximum  amount  of  the 
following: 
1. The purchase price of the goods at the time and place of shipping, or their 
current value at the same time and place if they are not purchased, in 
addition to the costs of transport to the port of call, and the anticipated profit.  
2. The value of the goods at the time and place of arrival, or, in case of loss, at 
the scheduled date of arrival.  
3. The sale price of the goods if sold by the insured, in addition to any extra 
amounts that may otherwise be agreed upon in the bill of sale.  
Article 348  
The  damage  sustained  by  goods  shall  be  assessed  by  calculating  the 
difference in their value before and after the damage at the same time and 
place, in which case the depreciation rate shall apply to the amount of insurance 
Article 349  
1. The insured may abandon the insured goods to the insurer if: 
a) a three-month period lapses from the last time news about the vessel is 
received and it is presumed to have been lost as of the date of receipt of 
such news;  
b) the  vessel  becomes  unseaworthy  during  a  voyage,  and  it  becomes 
impossible to transport the goods by any other means to the agreed-upon 
destination  within  three  months  from  the  date  the  insurer  is  notified 
thereof;    
    88 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
c) the goods are lost, or sustain damage that amounts to the loss of 75% or 
more of their value, as specified in the insurance policy; or 
d) the goods are sold during the voyage due to sustaining material damage 
arising from an insured risk. 
2. If the insurance covers war risks, the insured may invoke his right to abandon 
the goods in the event the vessel is captured, arrested, or suspended by 
order of the public authorities, unless the goods are placed under the control 
of the insured within four months from the date he notifies the insurer of the 
accident. 
Article 350  
An open-cover insurance shall provide the terms and conditions by which the 
insurer and the insured are bound, including the maximum amount of insurance 
per shipment to be reimbursed by the insurer, and the value of the insurance 
premiums to be paid by the insured. The insured goods, voyages, vessels, and 
other particulars shall be documented in a separate annex for each shipment. 
Article 351  
In an open-cover insurance policy, the insured shall be obligated to notify the 
insurer of the following shipments for which the insurer agrees to provide 
coverage: 
1. All shipments made for the benefit of the insured, or in implementation of 
purchase or bill of sale where insurance is mandatory. Coverage of such 
shipments shall automatically take effect if exposed to the insured risk, 
provided that the insured gives notice thereof within the period specified in 
the insurance policy. 
2. All shipments made for the benefit of a third party on whose behalf the 
insured seeks insurance, provided that the insured has an interest in such 
shipment, in his capacity as a commission agent, a trustee of the goods, or 
otherwise. Insurance of such shipments shall only come into effect as of the 
date the insurer is notified thereof. 
Article 352  
1. If the insured breaches the obligations stipulated in Article 351, the insurer 
may  seek  the  immediate  termination  of  the  contract  in  addition  to  a 
compensation equal to the insurance premiums pertaining to shipments of 
which he has not been notified.  
    89 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
2. If it is established that the insured acted in bad faith, the insurer may recover 
the amounts he has reimbursed for shipment-related accidents following the 
first deliberate breach committed by the insured. 
Article 353  
The insured shall notify the insurer of any damage sustained by the insured 
goods within 15 days from the date of their receipt; otherwise, they shall be 
presumed to have been received in good condition, unless proved otherwise by 
the insured. 
Chapter 5: Liability Insurance 
Article 354 
With respect to liability insurance, the insurer shall not be obligated to pay 
compensation in the event the accident provided in the insurance policy occurs, 
unless the third party sustaining damage seeks an amicable settlement or files 
a lawsuit against the insured. The compensation reimbursed by the insurer shall 
be limited to the damage for which the insured is liable. 
Article 355  
A third-party liability insurance contract for damage attributable to the vessel, 
as provided for in Article 331, shall not take effect, unless the amount of 
insurance on the vessel is insufficient to cover the damage. 
Article 356  
If liability is covered by multiple insurance policies, each insurer shall be liable 
for each accident separately, within the limits of his respective insurance policy, 
regardless of the number of accidents, provided the aggregate amount of 
compensation  received  by  the  insured  does  not  exceed  the  value  of  the 
damage arising from liability. 
Article 357 
A person building or repairing a vessel may obtain liability insurance against 
    90 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
any damage sustained by the vessel or a third party. 
Part 8: Prevention and Control of Maritime Pollution 
Article 358  
1. The master must immediately report to port authorities any oil leakage from 
his vessel while at any of the Kingdom's ports or maritime areas, as well as 
the circumstances of the incident, and the measures taken to stop or control 
such leakage.  
2. All vessels must carry an oil pollution emergency plan to be immediately 
implemented by the master upon occurrence of the leakage. 
Article 359  
The maritime inspection authority shall have the right to inspect the oil records 
of all vessels located at the Kingdom's ports.  
Article 360  
Any oil barge or tanker carrying oil to or from a vessel within the Kingdom's 
ports or territorial waters shall keep a record of all the operations it carries out, 
in accordance with the regulations. 
Article 361 
Any vessel flying the flag of the Kingdom shall have an emergency plan on 
board to address pollution resulting from leakage of oil or toxic and hazardous 
substances, and shall, as specified by the regulations, notify the competent 
authority of the same upon occurrence. 
Article 362 
The  Authority  shall  report  to  the  International  Maritime  Organization  any 
breaches committed by vessels inside the Kingdom's ports and maritime areas, 
as well as information regarding any requirement or measure associated with 
ballast water. 
    91 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Part 9: Safety of Navigation at Ports and Territorial Waters  
Chapter 1: Maritime Towage 
Article 363  
1. Towage operations within ports shall be carried out under the command of 
the towed vessel's master, and the operator of the towed vessel shall be held 
liable for any damage sustained during towage.  
2. Towage operations within ports may, by a written agreement, be carried out 
under the command of the towing vessel's master. In such case, the operator 
of the towing vessel shall be held liable for any damage sustained during 
towage, unless it is established that said damage is attributable to the towed 
vessel.  
Article 364  
1. Towage  operations  beyond  port  limits  shall  be  carried  out  under  the 
command of the towing vessel's master, and the operator of the towing 
vessel shall be held liable for any damage sustained during towage, unless 
it is established that said damage is attributable to the towed vessel. 
2. Towage operations beyond port limits may, by a written agreement, be 
carried out under the command of the towed vessel's master. In such case, 
the  operator  of  the  towed  vessel  shall  be  held  liable  for  any  damage 
sustained during towage. 
Article 365  
Towage services shall be provided pursuant to a contract concluded between 
the master or operator of the towing vessel, and the master or operator of the 
towed vessel. 
Article 366  
The towing vessel shall be held liable for any damage sustained by the towed 
vessel, unless such damage is caused by force majeure or an unanticipated 
accident, or is attributable to the towed vessel or an inherent defect therein, or 
to a fault by the towed vessel’s operator, master, or any of its crew members. 
    92 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 367  
No claim arising from a towage operation shall be heard after the lapse of two 
years from the date of completion of said operation. 
Chapter 2: Maritime Pilotage 
Article 368  
1. Pilotage at the Kingdom's ports is mandatory, and shall apply to any vessel 
upon its entry to, exit from, or movement within any of the Kingdom’s ports. 
The competent authority shall set the pilotage code, designate pilotage 
zones, and determine standard and additional pilotage fees. 
2. Paragraph (1) of this Article shall not apply to: 
a) warships;  
b) State  vessels  designated  for  public-service  and  non-commercial 
purposes;  
c) fishing vessels and vessels whose net tonnage is less than 150 tons;  
d) port-owned marine units; or 
e) pleasure vessels.  
Article 369  
1. Any  vessel  subject  to  the  pilotage  code  must  fly  on  its  mast  the  sign 
requesting a pilot prior to its entry to, exit from, or movement within a pilotage 
zone.  
2. The master shall inform the pilot of the particulars relating to the draft, length, 
and width of the vessel's hull, as well as its capacity to maneuver under 
different drafts and speeds. Such particulars shall be clearly visible in the 
bridge. 
Article 370  
1. A vessel shall remain under its master's command while a pilot carries out 
his duties on board thereof.  
2. The pilot or the body with which he is associated shall not be held liable for 
any damage sustained by a vessel he pilots.  
3. The operator of a vessel shall be solely liable for any damage sustained by 
a third party that arises from a fault attributable to the pilot while carrying out 
his duties.  
4. The operator of a vessel shall be liable for any damage sustained by a pilot 
    93 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
boat during pilotage, or during maneuvers relating to the pilot's embarkation 
or disembarkation, unless it is established that said damage arises from a 
gross fault attributable to the pilot.  
5. The operator of a vessel shall be liable for any damage sustained by the pilot 
or his crew during pilotage, unless it is established that said damage arises 
from a fault attributable to the pilot or his crew.  
Article 371  
1. The pilot shall give priority to assisting an imperiled vessel, even if not 
requested, provided he coordinates, if possible, with the competent authority.  
2. If the pilot is compelled to travel with the vessel, due to poor weather 
conditions or due to the master's request, the operator of the vessel shall be 
liable for the cost of his meals and accommodation, and for his return to the 
port of departure, along with any due compensation. 
Article 372  
No claim arising from a pilotage operation may be heard upon the lapse of two 
years from the date of completion of said operation. 
Part 10: Penalties 
Article 373  
A fine of not less than 100,000 riyals and not more than 1,000,000 riyals, shall 
be imposed upon: 
1. any owner, operator, or master who flies the Kingdom’s flag on a vessel not 
registered  in  the  Kingdom;  the  judgment  may  also  provide  for  the 
confiscation of the vessel; and 
2. any  owner,  operator,  or  master  who  conceals,  obscures,  disfigures,  or 
erases any of the vessel's particulars, unless the acts set forth in paragraphs 
(1) and (2) of this Article are intended to evade capture.  
Article 374 
A fine of not less than 100,000 riyals and not more than 500,000 riyals shall be 
imposed upon the operator of a marine platform who operates said platform 
without  satisfying  the  safety  requirements  necessary  for  the  protection  of 
individuals and the environment. 
    94 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 375 
A fine of not less than 100,000 riyals and not more than 500,000 riyals shall be 
imposed upon:  
1. any person who brings into the Kingdom's territorial waters a stranded or 
abandoned vessel, or part of its cargo, appurtenances, or maritime wreck, 
with the intention to circumvent the provisions of this Law; 
2. any person who prevents, impedes, or attempts to impede the rescue of a 
vessel that is stranded or at risk of being stranded; and 
3. any person who conceals a maritime wreck, or removes or erases any of its 
identifying marks within the Kingdom's ports or territorial waters. 
Article 376  
1. A fine of not less than 10,000 riyals and not more than 100,000 riyals shall 
be imposed upon any master who, without an acceptable justification, fails 
to respond to a distress signal to rescue a vessel at risk of sinking or to 
rescue a person found in the midst of the sea. 
2. The same penalty shall be imposed on the operator if the violation stipulated 
in paragraph (1) of this Article is committed based on his explicit instructions.  
Article 377  
Without prejudice to the provisions of civil liability, a fine of not less than 10,000 
riyals and not more than 100,000 riyals shall be imposed upon the master or 
operator of a sailing vessel which flies the flag of the Kingdom and which does 
not carry a valid certificate of the certificates provided for in this Law, or of a 
sailing vessel which has been, pursuant to a judicial ruling, suspended or barred 
from sailing. 
Article 378  
A fine of not less than 10,000 riyals and not more than 100,000 riyals shall be 
imposed upon any person who obstructs or hinders the work of maritime 
inspectors or experts of classification societies authorized by the Authority. 
Article 379  
A fine of not less 10,000 riyals and not more than 50,000 riyals shall be imposed 
upon  any  person  who  pilots  a  vessel  without  holding  a  license  from  the 
    95 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
competent authority. 
Article 380  
A fine of not less than 3,000 riyals and not more than 30,000 riyals shall be 
imposed upon a master who, without a valid justification, drops the vessel's 
anchor within a maritime traffic separation zone. 
Article 381 
A fine of not less than 5,000 riyals and not more than 20,000 riyals shall be 
imposed upon: 
1. any person who raises any known maritime wreck within the Kingdom's ports 
or territorial waters without obtaining prior authorization from the relevant 
authority; or 
2. any  person  who  boards  or  attempts  to  board  a  wrecked,  stranded,  or 
imperiled vessel within the Kingdom's ports or territorial waters without the 
permission of the vessel's master. 
Article 382  
A fine of not less than 1,000 riyals and not more than 20,000 riyals shall be 
imposed upon any member of the vessel's crew or marine unit who causes such 
vessel to be suspended or barred from sailing due to his false statement. If such 
statement is made in bad faith, he shall be subject to a fine not exceeding 
50,000 riyals. 
Article 383  
A fine of not less than 2,000 riyals and not more than 10,000 riyals shall be 
imposed upon the vessel owner if he:  
1. violates procedures or fails to meet time limits provided for by this Law and 
its regulations with respect to: 
a) vessel registration; 
b) notification of modifications made to the vessel; or 
c) striking off vessel registration. 
2. uses a temporary registration certificate in violation of this Law; or 
3. refrains from presenting the vessel's registration certificate to the competent 
authorities upon demand. 
    96 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 384  
A fine of not less than 2,000 riyals and not more than 5,000 riyals shall be 
imposed upon the master of a vessel who fails to maintain an oil record on 
board. 
Article 385  
A licensee who fails to comply with his license obligations or who breaches any 
of its terms or any of his obligations towards his clients shall be subject to one 
or more of the following: 
1. A warning notice of license withdrawal or revocation.  
2. Suspension of license for a period not exceeding one year.  
3. Withdrawal or revocation of license. 
4. A fine of not less than 5,000 riyals and not more than 100,000 riyals. 
Article 386  
A master, owner, or operator of a passenger vessel, carrying passengers to or 
from the Kingdom on a regular basis, who fails to comply with the vessel's 
passenger capacity as stated in its certificates, shall, except in the case of 
necessity, or at the Authority's directives, be subject to a fine equal to double 
the value of the travel tickets of the extra passengers of each voyage. 
Article 387 
A fine of not less than 2,000 riyals and not more than 50,000 riyals shall be 
imposed upon any person who violates any of the provisions of this Law or its 
regulations, for which no penalty is prescribed in this Part. 
Article 388  
1. Imposition of the penalties prescribed in this Part shall not preclude the 
imposition of any harsher penalty provided by another law. 
2. Imposition of the penalties prescribed in this Part shall not preclude the right 
of recourse against the violator for any damage sustained by persons or 
property, in accordance with applicable laws. 
3. Each relevant authority shall impose the penalties prescribed in this Part, 
each according to its respective statutory powers. 
    97 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Commercial Maritime Law 
 
 
 
 
Concluding General Provisions 
Article 389  
Application of the provisions stipulated in this Law shall not prejudice the 
Kingdom's  obligations  under  relevant  international  agreements  and  codes 
ratified by the Kingdom, nor the provisions of the GCC Unified Customs Law 
and its Implementing Regulations. 
Article 390  
The Chairman shall, in coordination with the relevant authorities, issue the 
regulations of this Law within 180 days following the date of its publication in 
the Official Gazette. 
Article 391 
This Law shall enter into force 180 days following the date of its publication in 
the Official Gazette and shall repeal Part II of the Commercial Court Law, 
promulgated by Royal Decree No. (32), dated 15/1/1350H; the Law of Seaports, 
Harbors, and Lighthouses, promulgated by Royal Decree No. (M/27), dated 
24/6/1394H; and any provisions conflicting therewith. 
 
 
    98 
 
 
 

NEW PAGE
Law of Commercial Agencies 
 
Royal Decree No. 11 
July 22, 1962 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Translation of Saudi Laws 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Agencies 
 
 
 
NOTE: 
The translation of Saudi laws takes the following into consideration: 
•  Words used in the singular form include the plural and vice versa.  
•  Words used in the masculine form include the feminine.  
•  Words used in the present tense include the present as well as the future.  
•  The word “person” or “persons” and their related pronouns (he, his, him, they, 
their, them) refer to a natural and legal person.  
 
   
  2 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Agencies 
 
 
 
Law of Commercial Agencies  
Article 1 
A non-Saudi person, whether natural or legal, may not operate as a commercial 
agent in the Kingdom. Saudi companies operating as commercial agents must 
have a 100% Saudi capital, and the members of their boards of directors and 
authorized signatories shall be Saudis. 
Article 2 
Commercial agents who are engaged in business on the date of issuance of 
this Law and who are not subject to the provisions of Article 1 of this Law shall 
be given a period of not more than two years from the date this law enters into 
force to liquidate and transfer their businesses to Saudi commercial agents. 
The Minister of Commerce and Industry shall specify such period for each agent 
separately, taking into consideration the time for liquidation, the nature of the 
business, and the above-mentioned period.  
Article 3 
A person may not operate as a commercial agent unless his name is  registered 
with the Ministry of Commerce and Industry in a register designated for this 
purpose;  said  register  shall  be  established  pursuant  to  a  decision  by  the 
Minister of Commerce and Industry. The register shall include the name of 
merchant or company, type of goods, name of the authorizing company or 
establishment, date of authorization, and, if definite, term of authorization. 
Registration  applications  shall  be  submitted  together  with  supporting 
documents  to  the  Deputy  Minister  of  Commerce  and  Industry.  Such 
applications may not be rejected except for non-Saudis or for Saudis who are 
unqualified or barred from engaging in business. Rejected applicants may 
appeal before the Minister of Commerce and Industry. 
Article 4 
A person operating as a commercial agent in violation of this Law shall be 
subject to a fine of not less than 1000 riyals and not more than 5000 riyals. If 
the violation is committed by a foreigner or by a Saudi company with one or 
more  non-Saudi  partners,  the  fine  shall  be  coupled  with  administrative 
liquidation of the commercial agency, and the violator may permanently or 
temporarily be barred from engaging in business. The Minister of Interior may, 
upon a recommendation by the Minister of Commerce and Industry, order the 
deportation of said foreigner. 
Article 4: This Article was amended pursuant to Royal Decree No. (M/32), 
dated 10/8/1400H, to read as follows: 
Any person violating this Law or its Implementing Regulations shall be subject 
to a fine of not less than 5000 riyals and not more than 50,000 riyals; the penalty 
  3 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Agencies 
 
 
 
shall be published at the violator’s expense without prejudice to the right of any 
aggrieved party for compensation. If the violation is committed by a foreigner or 
a Saudi company with one or more non-Saudi partners, the fine shall be 
coupled with administrative liquidation of the commercial agency, and the 
violator may permanently or temporarily be barred from engaging in business. 
The  Minister  of  Interior  may,  based  on  the  imposed  penalty,  order  the 
deportation of the foreigner. The Ministry of Commerce shall notify the Minister 
of Interior of said foreigner or non-Saudi partner. 
Article 5 
Fees for registration in the Agencies Register shall be as follows:  
-  50 riyals for an individual merchant.  
-  100 riyals for a company.  
Fees shall be paid once. 
Article 5: This Article was amended pursuant to Royal Decree No. (M/8), 
dated 20/3/1393H, to read as follows: 
A one-time fee of 500 riyals shall be imposed on an individual merchant or a 
company for registration in the Agencies Register. 
Article 6:  
This Law shall enter into force three months after the date of its publication. 
Article 6: This Article was amended pursuant to Royal Decree No. (M/5), 
dated 11/6/1389H, to read as follows: 
1. A panel of three members shall be formed at the Ministry of Commerce and 
Industry pursuant to a decision by its Minister to impose the penalties 
provided for in the Law of Commercial Agencies and the Law of Calibration 
and Measurement. 
2. Panel decisions may be appealed before the Minister of Commerce and 
Industry  within  15  days  from  the  date  the  aggrieved  party  or  his 
representative is notified thereof; otherwise, such decisions shall become 
final upon the approval of the Minister of Commerce and Industry. 
Article 1: This Article was amended pursuant to Royal Decree No. (M/32), 
dated 10/8/1400H to read as follows: 
Without prejudice to other laws, the Law of Commercial Agencies, issued 
pursuant to Royal Decree No. 11, dated 20/2/1382H, and its amendments shall 
apply to any person who enters into an agreement with the producer or his 
representative in his country to engage in business, whether as an agent or a 
distributor, in any form of authorization or distribution. 
  4 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Agencies 
 
 
 
Article 2: This Article was amended pursuant to Royal Decree No. (M/32), 
dated 10/8/1400H, to read as follows: 
Without prejudice to laws and decisions pertaining to the provision of spare 
parts and maintenance, the agent and distributor shall: 
a) make available continuous supply of highly demanded spare parts and make 
available other less demanded spare parts within a reasonable time, as 
stipulated by the Implementing Regulations; and 
b) provide  necessary  maintenance for  the  products,  guarantee  their 
manufacturing  quality,  and  abide  by  the  terms  and  conditions  of  the 
producers  throughout  the  term  of  the  agency  agreement  and  the  year 
following either the expiration of the agency agreement or the appointment 
of a new agent, whichever comes first, in accordance with the Implementing 
Regulations. 
Article 3: This Article was amended pursuant to Royal Decree No. (M/32), 
dated 10/8/1400H, to read as follows: 
The Implementing Regulations of the Law of Commercial Agencies shall be 
issued by the Minister of Commerce and shall be published in the Official 
Gazette. 
Article 4: This Article was amended pursuant to Royal Decree No. (M/32), 
dated 10/8/1400H, to read as follows: 
The Ministry of Commerce shall prepare model agreements for agents and 
distributors.  The  model  agreements  shall  contain  all  necessary  elements, 
including the parties to the agreement, subject matter, duration, territory, terms 
for renewal and termination, and the parties’ obligations towards each other 
and  towards  consumers,  especially  with  regards  to  the  provision  of 
maintenance and spare parts. 
  5 

NEW PAGE
Income Tax Law 
 
Royal Decree No. M/1 
March 6, 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Translation of Saudi Laws 

NEW PAGE

Income Tax Law 
 
 
 
NOTE: 
The translation of Saudi laws takes the following into consideration: 
•  Words used in the singular form include the plural and vice versa.  
•  Words used in the masculine form include the feminine.  
•  Words used in the present tense include the present as well as the future.  
•  The word “person” or “persons” and their related pronouns (he, his, him, they, 
their, them) refer to a natural and legal person.  
 
   
  2 

NEW PAGE

Income Tax Law 
 
 
 
Income Tax Law 
Chapter 1: Definitions 
Article 1 
In this Law, the following terms shall have the meanings assigned thereto, 
unless the context requires otherwise: 
Minister: Minister of Finance 
Department: Department of Zakat and Income. 
Tax: Income tax imposed in accordance with this Law. 
Person: Any natural or corporate person. 
Taxpayer: Any person subject to tax in accordance with this Law. 
Activity: Any form of commercial activity, or any vocational, professional, or 
any other similar activity for profit. This includes the use of movable and 
immovable property.  
Royalties: Payments received for the use of or the right to use intellectual 
rights, including, but not limited to, copyrights, patents, designs, industrial 
secrets, trademarks and trade names, know-how, trade and business secrets, 
goodwill, and payments received against the use of information related to 
industrial, commercial, or scientific expertise, or against granting the right to 
exploit natural and mineral resources.  
Kingdom: The lands and territorial waters of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, its 
air space, and its rights in the zone divided between it and the State of Kuwait. 
This includes marine or semi-marine areas that are under the sovereignty, 
sovereignty  rights,  or  jurisdiction  of  the  Kingdom  in  accordance  with 
International Law.  
Capital  company:  A  joint  stock  company,  limited  liability  company,  or  a 
company limited by shares. For the purposes of this Law, investment funds 
shall be considered capital companies.  
Partnership:  A  general  partnership,  a  silent  partnership,  or  a  limited 
partnership. 
Resident: A natural person, a company that satisfies the residency conditions 
stipulated in Article 3 of this Law, any governmental department, ministry, or 
public entity, or any other corporate person or entity formed in the Kingdom.  
Nonresident: Any person who does not satisfy the requirements of the status 
of resident. 
Saudi citizen: A person holding the Saudi nationality or who is treated as such.  
Commercial books: The set of commercial books kept by taxpayers in which 
all commercial transactions are recorded as described by Royal Decree No. 
(M/61)  dated  17/12/1409H  and  its  Implementing  Regulations  issued  by 
  3 

NEW PAGE

Income Tax Law 
 
 
 
Ministerial  Decision  No.  (699)  dated  29/7/1410H,  amended  by  Ministerial 
Decision No. (1110) dated 24/12/1410H, and any subsequent amendments 
thereof. 
Regulations: Implementing Regulations of this Law.     
Any word or phrase with no specific definition in this Chapter shall have the 
same definition it has in other Laws applicable in the Kingdom provided that 
such definition is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Law. 
Natural Gas Investment: Activities of the exploration and production of non-
associated natural gas, including gas condensates, as well as the activities of 
collection,  purification,  treatment,  fractionation,  and  transportation  of 
associated and non-associated natural gas, and their liquids, gas condensates, 
and other accompanying elements. 
Natural Gas Transportation: The transfer of associated and non-associated 
natural gas from purification plants to treatment plants and fractionation plants, 
or  from  such  plants  to  end  user  facilities,  as  well as  the  transfer  of  gas 
condensates and its liquids. This shall not include local distribution networks 
and pipelines constructed by non-gas producers beyond the official sale points. 
Chapter 2: Taxpayers 
Article 2: Persons Subject to Taxation 
A. A resident capital company with respect to the shares of non-Saudi partners. 
B. A natural person who is a resident non-Saudi conducting business in the 
Kingdom. 
C. A nonresident who conducts business in the Kingdom through a permanent 
establishment.  
D. A nonresident with other taxable income from sources within the Kingdom. 
E. A person engaged in the field of natural gas investment. 
F. A person engaged in the production of oil and hydrocarbons. 
Article 3: Concept of Residency 
A. A natural person shall be considered a resident in the Kingdom for a taxable 
year if he meets any of the two following conditions: 
1. He has a permanent place of residence in the Kingdom and resides in the 
Kingdom for a total period of not less than 30 days in the taxable year. 
2. He resides in the Kingdom for a period of not less than 183 days in the 
taxable year. 
For the purposes of this paragraph, residence in the Kingdom for part of a day 
shall be considered residence for a whole day, except in case of a person in 
transit between two points outside the Kingdom.  
  4 

NEW PAGE

Income Tax Law 
 
 
 
B. A company shall be considered a resident in the Kingdom during the taxable 
year if it meets any of the following conditions: 
1. It is formed in accordance with the Companies Law. 
2. Its central management is located in the Kingdom. 
Article 4: Permanent Establishment  
A. A  permanent  establishment  of  a  nonresident  in  the  Kingdom,  unless 
otherwise stated in this Article, shall consist of a permanent place in which 
the nonresident practices his business activity, in full or in part, including any 
business carried out through an agent. 
B. The following shall be considered permanent establishments: 
1. Construction sites, assembly facilities, and the exercise of supervisory 
activities connected therewith. 
2. Installations,  sites  used  for  surveying  natural  resources,  drilling 
equipment, ships used for surveying natural resources, and the exercise 
of supervisory activities connected therewith. 
3. A  fixed  base  from  which  a  nonresident  natural  person  carries  out 
business. 
4. The branch of a nonresident company licensed to carry out business in 
the Kingdom. 
C. A  place  shall  not  be  considered  the  permanent  establishment  of  a 
nonresident in the Kingdom if used in the Kingdom only for the following 
purposes: 
1. Storing,  displaying,  or  delivering goods or  products  belonging  to  the 
nonresident. 
2. Keeping a stock of goods or products belonging to the nonresident for the 
purpose of treatment by another person. 
3. Purchasing  goods  or  products  for  the  sole  purpose  of  collecting 
information for the nonresident. 
4. Carrying out other activities of a preparatory or auxiliary nature to the 
benefit of the nonresident. 
5. Drafting contracts for signature in connection with loans, delivery of goods 
or technical services. 
6. Performing any group of the activities stated in subparagraphs (1) to (5) 
of this paragraph. 
D. A nonresident partner in a resident partnership shall be considered an owner 
of a permanent establishment in the Kingdom, as a shareholder in the 
partnership.  
Article 5: Source of Income 
A. Income shall be considered accrued in the Kingdom in any of the following 
  5 

NEW PAGE

Income Tax Law 
 
 
 
cases:  
1. If it is derived from an activity which occurs in the Kingdom. 
2. If it is derived from immovable property located in the Kingdom, including 
gains from the disposal of a share in such immovable properties and from 
the disposal of shares, stocks, or partnership in a company the property 
of which consists mainly, directly or indirectly, of shares in immovable 
properties in the Kingdom.  
3. If it is derived from the disposal of shares or a partnership in a resident 
company. 
4. If it is derived from lease of movable properties used in the Kingdom. 
5. If it is derived from the sale or license for use of industrial or intellectual 
properties in the Kingdom. 
6. Dividends or management or directors' fees paid by a resident company. 
7. Amounts paid against services rendered by a resident company to the 
company’s head office or to an affiliate thereof. 
8. Amounts paid by a resident against services performed in whole or in part 
in the Kingdom.  
9. Amounts for the exploitation of a natural resource in the Kingdom.  
10. If  the  income  is  attributable  to  a  permanent  establishment  of  a 
nonresident located in the Kingdom, including income from sales in the 
Kingdom of goods of the same or similar kind as those sold through such 
a permanent establishment, and income from rendering services or 
carrying out another activity in the Kingdom of the same or similar nature 
as  an  activity  performed  by  a  nonresident  through  a  permanent 
establishment. 
B. The income’s place of payment shall not be taken into account in determining 
its source. 
C. For  the  purposes  of  this  Article,  a  payment  made  by  a  permanent 
establishment of a nonresident in the Kingdom shall be considered as if paid 
by a resident company. 
Chapter 3: Tax Base and Tax Rates 
Article 6 
A. The tax base of a resident capital company shall be the shares of non-Saudi 
partners in its taxable income from any activity from sources within the 
Kingdom after deducting expenses permitted under this Law. 
B. The tax base of a resident non-Saudi natural person shall be his taxable 
income from any activity from sources within the Kingdom after deducting 
expenses permitted under this Law. 
  6 

NEW PAGE

Income Tax Law 
 
 
 
C. The tax base of a nonresident who performs an activity in the Kingdom 
through a permanent establishment shall be his taxable income arising from 
or related to the activity of such establishment after deducting expenses 
permitted under this Law.  
D.  The tax base of each natural person shall be determined separately.  
E. The tax base of a capital company shall be determined separately of its 
shareholders or partners.  
F. The tax base of a person engaged in the production of oil and hydrocarbons 
shall be his taxable income after deducting expenses permitted under this 
Law; this shall not include the tax base relating to his investment in natural 
gas. 
G. The tax base of a person engaged in natural gas investment shall be his 
taxable income in such investment after deducting expenses permitted under 
this Law. This tax base shall be separate from the tax base relating to his 
other activities.  
Article 7 
A. The tax rate of the tax base shall be 20% for each of the following: 
1. A resident capital company. 
2. A non-Saudi resident natural person who conducts business. 
3. A nonresident person who conducts business in the Kingdom through a 
permanent establishment. 
B. The tax rate of the tax base for a taxpayer engaged only in natural gas 
investment activities shall be 20%. 
C. The tax rate of the tax base for a taxpayer engaged in the production of oil 
and hydrocarbons shall be 85%.  
D. Withholding tax rates are those specified under Article 68 of this Law. 
E. The tax of a person engaged in the production of oil and hydrocarbons in 
addition to investing in natural gas in the Kingdom shall be the sum of his 
taxes from both tax bases as per paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Article.  
Chapter 4: Taxable Income 
Article 8 
1. Taxable Income is the gross income including all revenues, profits, and gains 
irrespective of their type and of the form of payment resulting from carrying 
out the activity, including capital gains and any incidental revenues, after 
deducting exempt income.  
2. Income from natural gas investment is the sum of gross income derived from 
the sale, exchange, and conversion of natural gas, its liquids, and gas 
  7 

NEW PAGE

Income Tax Law 
 
 
 
condensates, including sulfur and other products, as well as any other 
incidental or non-operational income derived from the taxpayer’s primary 
activity, regardless of its type or source, including income derived from the 
utilization of excess energy in a facility subject to natural gas investment. 
Article 9: Gains or Losses Resulting from the Disposal of Assets 
A. The gain or loss resulting from the disposal of an asset is the difference 
between the compensation received for the asset and its cost base. 
B. No gain or loss on the disposal of a depreciable asset is taken into account 
other than what is stated in Article 17 of this Law. 
C. In determining taxable income, a natural person may not take into account 
the gain or loss on the disposal of an asset that is not for use in the activity.  
D. The  cost  base  of  an  asset  purchased,  produced,  manufactured,  or 
constructed  by a  taxpayer  itself  is  the amount  paid or  incurred  by  the 
taxpayer in cash or in kind in the process of acquiring the asset.  
E. Where a taxpayer disposes of part of an asset, the cost base of the asset is 
apportioned  between  the  part  retained  and  the  part  disposed  of  in 
accordance with their market value at the time the asset was purchased. 
F. Expenses incurred to alter or improve a non-depreciable asset are added to 
the cost base of the asset.  
G. The value of compensation for the disposal of an asset against in kind assets 
is based on the market value of those in kind assets, including exemption 
from the debt on the asset. 
H. Where a taxpayer disposes of an asset by way of gift or inheritance, the 
disposer is treated as having received compensation equal to the market 
value of the asset at the time of disposal, unless paragraph (i) of this Article 
is applicable.  
I.  If the disposed of asset is encumbered by debt exceeding its market value, 
the  taxpayer  disposing  of  the  asset  is  treated  as  having  received 
compensation equal to the value of such debt. 
J. In determining the tax base, no gain or loss is taken into account on the 
involuntary disposal of an asset to the extent that the compensation value is 
used  in  purchasing  an  asset  of  the  same  kind  within  one  year  of  the 
involuntary disposal. 
K. The cost base of the replacement asset described in paragraph (j) of this 
Article is determined with reference to the cost base of the replaced asset. 
L. Where an asset owned by a taxpayer is converted to personal use or 
otherwise ceases to be used in the generation of income, the taxpayer is 
deemed  to  have  disposed  of  the  asset  for  its  market  value,  with  the 
recognition of the resulting gain but not the loss.  
  8 

NEW PAGE

Income Tax Law 
 
 
 
Article 10: Tax-Exempt Income 
The following types of income are exempt from income tax: 
a) Capital gains realized from the disposal of securities traded in the stock 
market  in  the  Kingdom  in  accordance  with  restrictions  specified  in  the 
Regulations. 
b) Gains resulting from the disposal of property other than assets used in the 
activity.  
Article 11: Donations 
In determining the tax base of each taxpayer, a deduction is allowed for 
donations  paid  during  the  taxable  year  to  public  agencies  or  non-profit 
philanthropic  societies  licensed  in  the  Kingdom  and  permitted  to  receive 
donations.  
Chapter 5: Expenses of Earning Income 
Article 12: Expenses Related to Earning Income 
All regular and necessary expenses of earning taxable income, paid or accrued, 
and incurred during the taxable year are deductible in determining the tax base, 
with the exception of outlays of a capital nature and other nondeductible 
expenses according to Article 13 of this Law and other provisions of this 
Chapter. 
Article 13: Nondeductible Expenses 
No deduction is allowed for the following:  
a) Expenses not connected with the earning of taxable income. 
b) Any amounts paid or benefits offered to a shareholder, partner, or any of 
their relatives which constitute salaries, wages, awards, or the like, or those 
which do not satisfy the conditions for transactions among independent 
parties against properties or services. 
c) Recreation expenses. 
d) Expenses of a natural person for personal consumption. 
e) Income tax paid in the Kingdom or in another country. 
f)  Fines and financial penalties paid or payable to any party in the Kingdom, 
excluding those paid for breach of contractual conditions and obligations. 
g) Any bribe or similar amounts which are considered a criminal offense under 
the laws of the Kingdom, even if paid abroad.  
  9 

NEW PAGE

Income Tax Law 
 
 
 
Article 14: Bad Debts 
A. A taxpayer may deduct bad debts arising from the sale of goods or services 
that have been previously declared as a taxable income of the taxpayer.  
B. A bad debt may be deducted when written off the taxpayer’s books when 
there  is  suitable  evidence  proving  the  impossibility  of  collecting  it,  as 
specified in the Regulations. 
Article 15: Reserves and Allocations  
No reserves or allocations may be deducted except allocations of doubtful 
debts for banks. The Regulations shall determine the rules and restrictions 
specifying such allocations. 
Article 16: Research and Development Expenses 
Research and development expenses connected with the earning of taxable 
income may be deducted. Expenses for the purchase of land or equipment 
used for research purposes may not be deducted. Such equipment shall be 
subject to depreciation under Article 17 of this Law. 
Article 17: Depreciation 
A. Except for land, depreciation may be deducted for a taxpayer's depreciable 
tangible or intangible assets which lose value because of wear and tear or 
obsolescence and which are used, in whole or in part, in the generation of 
taxable income, and remain to have value after the end of the taxable year.  
B. Depreciable assets are classified into groups and depreciation rates as 
follows:  
1. Stationary buildings: 5%. 
2. Movable industrial and agricultural buildings: 10%. 
3. Factories, machines, engines, hardware, software (computer software), 
and equipment, including passenger and cargo vehicles: 25%. 
4. Expenses  for  geological  surveying,  drilling,  exploration,  and  other 
preliminary work to exploit natural resources and develop their fields: 
20%. 
5. All other tangible and intangible depreciable assets not included in the 
previous categories, such as furniture, planes, ships, trains, and goodwill: 
10%. 
C. The depreciation deduction for each group is determined in accordance with 
paragraphs (d) to (l) of this Article. 
D. The depreciation deduction for each group is calculated by applying its 
depreciation rate as determined in accordance with paragraph (b) of this 
Article against the balance of the value of such group at the end of the 
taxable year. 
E. The balance of the value of each group at the end of a taxable year is the 
  10 

NEW PAGE

Income Tax Law 
 
 
 
total of the balance of the value of the group at the end of the previous 
taxable year after the deduction of depreciation in accordance with this 
Article for the previous taxable year, and the addition of 50% of the cost base 
of assets in use during the current and previous taxable years after the 
deduction of 50% of the compensation received from the assets disposed of 
during the current and previous taxable years, provided that the balance 
does not become negative. 
F. If the taxpayer converts its assets to personal use or if the asset ceases to 
be used in the generation of taxable income, this action by the taxpayer shall 
be deemed to be a disposal of the asset for its market value. 
G. When 50% of the compensation of the assets disposed of during the current 
and previous taxable years exceeds the balance of the value of the group at 
the end of the taxable year, regardless of the amount of such compensation, 
the value of the group shall be reduced to zero and the excess is included in 
the taxpayer's taxable income. 
H. If the balance of the value of the group at the end of the year, after approving 
deductions in accordance with paragraph (d) of this Article, is less than 1,000 
riyals, the amount of the balance may be deducted. 
I.  Where all the assets in a group are disposed of, the balance of the group 
may be deducted at the end of the year. 
J. Where a land is bought or sold with constructions thereon, the value shall be 
reasonably apportioned to arrive at a separate value of the constructions. 
K. In case part of the assets is used for the generation of taxable income, a 
depreciation deduction is allowed for part of the asset value against the part 
of the asset used in the generation of the taxable income.  
L. As an exception to the provisions of the previous paragraphs, assets under 
Build-Operate-Transfer  (BOT)  or  Build-Own-Operate-Transfer  (BOOT) 
contracts may be depreciated over the contract period or over the remaining 
period of the contract, if such assets are acquired or renewed during that 
period.  
Article 18: Expenses of Asset Repair and Improvement  
A. Expenses  incurred  by  the  taxpayer  for  the  repair  or  improvement  of 
depreciable assets in each group may be deducted. 
B. The amount of expenses deductible in accordance with paragraph (a) of this 
Article for each year shall not exceed 4% of the balance of the value of the 
group at the end of said year. 
C. The amount exceeding the limit stated in paragraph (b) of this Article shall 
be added to the balance of the value of the group. 
Article 19: Expenses for Geological Surveying and Preliminary Work for 
the Extraction of Natural Resources 
A. Expenses for geological surveying and preliminary work for the extraction of 
  11 

NEW PAGE

Income Tax Law 
 
 
 
natural resources are deducted in the form of amortization expenses at the 
depreciation  rate  determined  in  Article  17(b)  of  this  Law,  where  these 
expenses constitute an independent group.  
B. This Article also applies to expenses of intangible assets incurred by the 
taxpayer in the acquisition of rights to geological surveying and the treatment 
and exploitation of natural resources. 
Article 20: Contributions to Authorized Retirement Funds 
A. An employer’s contributions to an authorized retirement fund established in 
accordance with the laws of the Kingdom may be deducted in favor of the 
employee.  
B. The deduction allowed under paragraph (a) of this Article for each employee 
shall not exceed 25% of his income, prior to calculating the employer’s 
contributions. 
C. The employee’s contributions to an authorized retirement fund may not be 
deducted.  
Article 21 
A. A net operating loss may be carried forward to the taxable year following the 
year in which the loss is incurred. The carried forward loss shall be deducted 
from the tax base of following taxable years until the cumulative loss is fully 
offset. The Regulations shall specify the maximum limits which may be 
deducted annually.  
B. A net operating loss is the deductions allowed under this Chapter which are 
in excess of the taxable income for the taxable year.  
C. To calculate the net operating loss for a natural person, only the activity’s 
deductions and income shall be taken into consideration. 
D. For a taxpayer engaged in natural gas investment and the production of oil 
and hydrocarbons, net operating losses relating to the tax base of natural 
gas investment shall not be deducted from the tax base of the production of 
oil and hydrocarbons; likewise, net operating losses relating to the tax base 
of the production of oil and hydrocarbons shall not be deducted from the tax 
base of natural gas investment. 
Chapter 6: Tax Accounting Rules 
Article 22: Taxable year 
A. The taxable year shall be the State’s fiscal year. 
B. A taxpayer may use a 12-month period other than the one specified in 
paragraph (a) of this Article as a taxable year, in accordance with the 
restrictions specified in the Regulations. 
  12 

NEW PAGE

Income Tax Law 
 
 
 
C. If a taxpayer changes its taxable year, the interval between the last full 
taxable year prior to the change and the starting date of the new taxable year 
shall be considered a short independent fiscal period. The first year of a new 
taxpayer or the last year of a taxpayer in case of discontinuation or liquidation 
may  be  a  short  independent  fiscal  year,  unless  the  Companies  Law 
stipulates for it to be a long fiscal year. 
D. Groups of related companies, as defined in Article 64 of this Law, shall use 
the same taxable year. 
Article 23: Accounting Method 
A. A taxpayer's accounting method must clearly reflect the taxpayer's income. 
B. The gross income and expenses of a resident company, and any other 
taxpayer  who  keeps  or  is  required  by  Law  to  keep  commercial  books 
according to the accounting principles generally accepted in the Kingdom, 
shall be determined according to such books after adjusting the accounts so 
as to conform to the rules of this Law. 
C. For taxation purposes, a natural person may record his transactions on a 
cash or accrual basis. If his gross income from business during a taxable 
year exceeds the amount specified in the Regulations, he must use the 
accrual method in all succeeding taxable years. 
D. A company which keeps or is required by Law to keep commercial books 
must record income and expenses on an accrual basis. Otherwise, it may, 
for taxation purposes, use either the cash or accrual method. 
E. Except for a change from the cash basis to the accrual basis required in 
accordance with paragraphs (c) or (d) of this Article, a taxpayer may change 
its accounting method upon obtaining the Department’s consent. 
F. If the taxpayer changes its accounting method, it must perform adjustments 
to items of income and deduction or to debt or any other items in the taxable 
year following the change, so that no item is omitted or included more than 
once. 
Article 24: Cash-Basis Accounting 
A taxpayer who uses the cash method in its books and records shall register 
the received income when received or made available for receipt, and the paid 
expenses when paid.  
Article 25: Accrual-Basis Accounting 
A. A taxpayer who uses the accrual method shall record income and expenses 
when they are due. 
B. An amount becomes payable to the taxpayer when the taxpayer is entitled 
to receive it, even if payment is postponed or paid in installments. 
C. An amount becomes payable by the taxpayer when all facts determining 
liability have occurred. 
  13 

NEW PAGE

Income Tax Law 
 
 
 
Article 26: Long Term Contracts 
A. For a taxpayer who uses the accrual method, income and expenses relating 
to a long term contract shall be calculated on the basis of the percentage of 
the work completed during the taxable year. 
B. The percentage of work completed shall be determined by comparing the 
costs of the contract incurred during the taxable year with the total estimated 
cost of the contract. 
C. For the purposes of this Article, the term ‘long term contract’ shall mean a 
contract for the manufacture, installation, construction, or performance of 
services related thereto, and whose execution is not completed within the 
year in which execution started, with the exception of a contract that is 
expected to be completed within six months of the actual starting date of 
work cited in the contract. 
Article 27: Stock 
A. A taxpayer who maintains stock shall establish and maintain inventories for 
such stock. 
B. The cost of goods sold during the taxable year shall be deducted.  
C. The cost of goods sold during a taxable year shall be determined by adding 
the cost of goods purchased during the year to the opening stock and 
subtracting the value of the closing stock. 
D. A taxpayer who uses the cash method shall calculate the cost of stock by 
use of the prime (direct) cost method or the absorption costing method, but 
a taxpayer using the accrual method shall calculate the cost of stock by use 
of the absorption costing method only. 
E. The value of the closing stock shall be the book or market value, whichever 
is lower at that date. A taxpayer shall calculate the book value of the stock 
by use of the weighted average method. However, it may use another 
method, after obtaining the Department’s written permission, and it may not 
change the method chosen except with the consent of the Department. 
Chapter 7: Additional Rules for Determining the Tax Base  
Article 28: Joint Property 
Income or expenses relating to jointly-owned property shall be apportioned 
among partners in proportion to their respective shares in the property. 
Article 29: Valuation 
A. If calculation of the tax base or gross income involves non-cash properties, 
services, or other benefits, their market value shall be calculated as of the 
date it was recorded in the books for taxation purposes.  
  14 

NEW PAGE

Income Tax Law 
 
 
 
B. The market value of non-cash property transferred to an employee or any 
other service provider shall be determined without regard to any restrictions 
on transfer of ownership. 
Article 30: Currency Conversion 
A. Gross income and tax base shall be calculated in Saudi riyal. 
B. If calculation of income involves an amount in a currency other than the 
Saudi riyal, the amount shall be calculated for taxation purposes in Saudi 
riyal at the exchange rate declared by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency 
on the date of the transaction. 
Article 31: Indirect Payments or Benefits 
The gross income of a taxpayer shall include any payment from which the 
taxpayer benefits directly or indirectly, as well as any payment dealt with 
according to its instructions, if such payment is considered income of the 
taxpayer if paid to the taxpayer directly. 
Article 32: Damages Received  
Compensation  amounts  received  shall  take  the  character  of  what  is 
compensated for. 
Article 33: Recoup of Deducted Expenses  
A. If a taxpayer recoups expenses, loss, or previously permitted bad debt, the 
recouped amount shall be included in the gross income for the year in which 
it is recouped and it shall take the status of the income related to expenses. 
B. For the purpose of this Article, expenditure shall be considered recouped in 
the absence of the basis for expenditure. 
Article 34: Estimated Tax 
A. If branches of foreign airlines and sea or land freight and transportation 
companies operating in the Kingdom do not submit proof of their tax base in 
accordance with this Law, such tax base shall be determined as follows: 
1. The tax base for branches of foreign airlines operating in the Kingdom 
shall be considered 5% of the gross income realized in the Kingdom from 
tickets, cargo, mail, or any other income. Such branches shall declare 
their gross income in the Kingdom at the times specified by law.  
2. The  tax  base  for  foreign  freight  and  land  and  sea  transportation 
companies operating in the Kingdom shall be considered 5% of the gross 
income realized in the Kingdom from freight charges or any other income. 
Such branches shall be required to declare their income in the Kingdom 
at the times specified by law.  
B. The Minister shall have the power to authorize certain other sectors to use 
estimated taxation to determine their tax base and rates in accordance with 
  15 

NEW PAGE

Income Tax Law 
 
 
 
the Regulations.  
Article 35: International Agreements 
In case the conditions of a treaty or an international agreement to which the 
Kingdom is party are inconsistent with the articles and provisions of this Law, 
the conditions of the treaty or international agreement shall prevail except for 
the provisions of Article 63 of this Law which are related to anti-tax avoidance 
procedures.  
Chapter 8: Taxation Rules of Partnerships 
Article 36: General Provisions 
A. Taxes shall be imposed on partners in partnerships and not on the company 
itself. The company is required to file a tax declaration to disclose information 
that shows the amount of income, profit, loss, expenses, debts, and any 
other items or tax related matters of the partnership for the taxable year. The 
declaration shall be subject to procedural rules, including fines imposed on 
tax declarations in accordance with this Law. 
B. The partnership, rather than its partners, shall be responsible for choosing 
the  taxable  year,  accounting  method,  inventory  method,  and  any  other 
accounting policies consistent with this Law. It shall also be responsible for 
filing notifications and statements required in relation to its types of activity.  
C. The provisions of this Law concerning capital companies shall apply to the 
shares of limited partners in limited partnerships.  
Article 37: Taxation on Partners 
A. In determining the tax base of a partner, income, deductions, losses, and 
debt derived or accrued against the partnership retain their status as to the 
income’s geographic source and type, as well as the gains, deductions, 
losses, and debt. 
B. A partner’s share in a partnership’s income, loss, expenses, and debt shall 
be taken into account for the purpose of determining the tax base of the 
partner’s taxable year in which the partnership’s taxable year ends. The 
partner’s loss which exceeds his cost base is suspended until the partner 
acquires a sufficient cost base to offset the loss or until the partner’s share 
is disposed of. 
C. The related party's loss disallowance rule stated in Article 63(d) of this Law 
shall not be applicable to the partner’s share of losses and expenses in a 
partnership in accordance with paragraph (b) of this Article. A partnership’s 
loss which has been suspended according to Article 63(d) of this Law shall 
not be distributed among the partners until its conditions are fulfilled. The 
conditions shall be deemed fulfilled in case a loss is incurred in distribution 
upon the complete disposal of the partner’s share. 
  16 

NEW PAGE

Income Tax Law 
 
 
 
Article 38: Cost Base of the Partner's Share 
A. The cost base of a partner's share in a partnership shall be determined by 
the  amount  the  partner  pays  against  his  share  plus  the  cost  base  of 
properties he contributed to the company. 
B. The cost base increases by the amount of a partner’s share in a partnership’s 
income (along with his exempt income) included in the partner's gross 
income. 
C. The cost base decreases, but not below zero, by the cost of distributions 
from the partnership to the partner, and by the partner’s share of partnership 
losses, and the partnership's expenses and nondeductible expenses, except 
for capital items. 
D. Debt  incurred  by  the  partnership,  including  debt  against  its  properties, 
increases each partner’s cost base according to his share in the partnership. 
Debt incurred by some partners in the partnership, in their personal status, 
shall increase the cost base for these partners only. 
Article 39: Cost Base of the Partnership’s Assets 
A. The initial cost base of properties contributed to a partnership shall be equal 
to the cost base of the contributing partner. 
B. If a partner retires from a partnership and receives a distribution causing him 
to make profit by disposing of his share in the partnership, the cost base of 
the partnership’s profiting assets shall be adjusted by increasing the amount 
of profit made, provided that the value of such assets does not exceed their 
market  value.  Cost  base  adjustments  are  distributed  among  assets 
according to the percentage difference between the cost base and the 
market value. 
C. If a partner retires from a partnership and receives a distribution causing him 
to incur a loss by disposing of his share in the partnership, the cost base of 
the partnership’s losing assets shall be adjusted by reducing the value of the 
loss incurred, provided that the cost base of such assets is not less than 
zero. Cost base adjustments are distributed among assets in accordance 
with the percentage difference between the cost base and the market value. 
D. For the purposes of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Article, a profiting asset is 
an asset that has a cost base lower than the market value, and a losing asset 
is an asset that has a cost base higher than the market value. 
Article 40: Transfer of Property to a Partnership 
A. No gain or loss shall be calculated for the transfer of a partner’s assets to a 
partnership against acquiring a share in such partnership. 
B. The partner is considered an owner of a share in the partnership equal to the 
difference  between  the  value  of  the  asset  transferred  by  him  to  the 
partnership according to market prices and the amount paid to him. If the 
amount paid to him exceeds the market price, the excess amount shall be 
considered a distribution to the partner by the partnership.  
  17 

NEW PAGE

Income Tax Law 
 
 
 
Article 41: Transfer of Asset Ownership from a Partnership to a Partner  
A. A partnership’s transfer of a non-cash asset to a partner therein, including 
liquidation of the partner’s share, shall be treated as a disposal of the asset 
by the partnership, with a declaration of gain or loss on the transfer date.  
B. A partner shall take the cost base of the asset which equals the market value 
of the asset. 
C. A partner shall be deemed to have received a distribution of profit from the 
partnership with a value equal to the market price for the ownership of the 
asset transferred to him without paying its cost. The partner is treated as 
having disposed of part or all of his share in the partnership, if the estimated 
distribution  exceeds  the  partner’s  cost  base  in  the  partnership.  If  the 
distribution is a complete disposal of a partner’s share, and said distribution 
is less than the partner’s cost base, the difference between the cost base 
and distribution may be deducted on the basis that it is a loss resulting from 
his disposal of his share. 
Article 42: Change of Partners in a Partnership 
A. If a partner or partners enter into or retire from a partnership which results in 
its reconstitution, all its assets shall be considered transferred to the new 
partnership against shares in this partnership.  
B. Reconstitution of a partnership occurs when the entry or retirement of a 
partner or partners results in a change in the partnership’s membership 
exceeding 50% of its formation in the year preceding the change. 
Chapter 9: Rules of Taxation on Capital Companies 
Article 43: General Provisions 
A. A tax shall be imposed on the shares of general partners in a partnership 
limited by shares, as in a partnership. Henceforth, the general partners’ 
shares shall be deducted in determining the tax base of the partnership. The 
provisions of this Law which are applicable to partnerships shall apply to the 
shares of general partners in partnerships limited by shares.  
B. In case of a change of 50% or more in the ownership or control of a capital 
company, the share of a non-Saudi may not be deducted in losses incurred 
prior to the change in accordance with Article 21 of this Law in the taxable 
years following the change. 
Chapter 10  
Repealed 
  18 

NEW PAGE

Income Tax Law 
 
 
 
Chapter 11: General Provisions 
Article 56 
A. The Authority is the body responsible for the administration, examination, 
assessment, and collection of income tax, as well as the imposition of 
penalties stipulated in this Law.  
B. Imposition of penalties shall be pursuant to a decision by the Governor or 
the person assigned by the Authority's Board of Directors.  
Article 57: Taxpayers Registration  
A. Every person subject to tax in accordance with this Law shall register with 
the Department before the end of its first fiscal year. 
B. The provisions of this Article shall not apply to taxpayers subject only to final 
withholding tax in accordance with Article 68 of this Law. 
C. A fine not less than 1,000 riyals and not exceeding 10,000 riyals shall be 
imposed for failure to register. The Regulations shall specify the restrictions 
and amount of fine for different categories of taxpayers.  
Article 58: Books and Records  
A. A taxpayer, other than a nonresident with no permanent establishment in the 
Kingdom, shall maintain the necessary commercial books and accounting 
records in Arabic for precise determination of the tax payable by it. 
B. The Department retains the right not to allow a deduction if the taxpayer is 
unable without reasonable excuse to produce a document of the expense or 
evidence supporting the legitimacy of its claim for the deduction.  
Article 59: Confidentiality of Information 
A. The Department and all its staff shall maintain confidentiality of information 
pertaining to taxpayers which they have access to in their official capacity. 
As an exception, they may disclose information only to the following bodies: 
1. Employees of the Department, for the purpose of carrying out their duties 
under the law. 
2. Employees of the Customs Authority, for the purpose of enforcing the 
Customs Law. 
3. The General Audit Bureau, in its official capacity, for the purpose of 
auditing and reviewing. 
4. Tax authorities of foreign countries in accordance with treaties to which 
the Kingdom is party. 
5. Law enforcement agencies, for the purpose of the criminal prosecution of 
tax offenses. 
  19 

NEW PAGE

Income Tax Law 
 
 
 
6. Any judicial body in the Kingdom, upon its order, in a case under its 
review, to determine a taxpayer's tax liability, or in any other administrative 
or criminal matter under its review. 
B. A person receiving information under paragraph (a) of this Article shall be 
required to maintain its confidentiality, and not to use it except for the 
purpose for which it was required. 
C. Information concerning a taxpayer may be disclosed to another person upon 
the taxpayer's written consent. 
Chapter 12: Filing Declarations, Assessments, Procedures of 
Objections, and Appeals 
Article 60: Declarations 
A. Every taxpayer required to file a declaration shall file it in the prescribed form, 
include its identification number, and it shall pay the tax due thereon to the 
Department. 
B. The tax declaration shall be filed within 120 days following the end of the 
taxable year for which the declaration was made. 
C. The following taxpayers shall be required to file a tax declaration:  
1.  A resident capital company. 
2.  A nonresident with a permanent establishment in the Kingdom. 
3.  A resident, non-Saudi natural person who conducts business.  
D. A taxpayer who ceases business activity is required to notify the Department 
and submit, within 60 days from the cessation date, a tax declaration for the 
short taxable period ending on the date on which it ceases business. 
E. A taxpayer whose taxable income exceeds 1,000,000 riyals, shall have a 
certified accountant licensed to practice in the Kingdom certify the accuracy 
of the declaration. 
F. A partnership shall file an information declaration in accordance with Article 
36 of this Law, on or prior to the sixtieth day following the end of its taxable 
year. 
Article 61: The Department’s Right to Information 
A. All persons and government bodies shall provide the Department with any 
information related to tax requested by the Department for the taxation 
purposes stipulated in this Law. 
B. The Department may conduct a field examination of the taxpayer’s books 
and  records  during  working  hours  to  ascertain  the  correctness  of  the 
taxpayer’s tax liability.  
C. All  persons  and  government  bodies  shall  provide  the  Department  with 
  20 

NEW PAGE

Income Tax Law 
 
 
 
information  on  contracts  concluded  with  the  private  sector  within  three 
months of the date of conclusion of the contract. The information shall 
include the names and addresses of the two parties, in addition to the subject 
of the contract, its value, financial terms, and execution and expiration dates. 
A person who does not provide the Department with what is required under 
this paragraph, or does not notify the Department of the date of cessation of 
work stated in the contract, shall be jointly liable for any tax claim due on the 
contract.  The  Regulations  shall  specify  the  conditions  and  procedures 
required to implement this obligation. 
Article 62: Examination and Assessment Procedures 
A. The Department may correct and adjust the tax shown on the declaration to 
make it conform to the provisions of this Law, and it may perform tax 
assessment if the taxpayer does not file its declaration. 
B. The Department shall notify the taxpayer of  the tax assessment under 
paragraph (a) of this Article and of the tax due on it by a registered official 
letter, or by any other means that proves its receipt of the notification. 
C. Subject to Article 65 of this Law, if it becomes clear to the Department that 
the tax it had previously accepted is incorrect, the Department may make an 
additional assessment on the taxpayer. The Department shall notify the 
taxpayer  of  the  additional  assessment  and  the  reasons  therefor.  The 
taxpayer  may  object  to  the  assessment  as  stipulated  in  the  rules  for 
objection. 
Article 63: Anti-Tax Avoidance Procedures 
A. For the purpose of tax determination, the Department may: 
1. disregard any transaction with no tax effect; and 
2. reclassify transactions whose form does not reflect their substance and 
put them in their real form. 
B. The Department may make a tax assessment due on the taxpayer using the 
estimated tax method according to facts and circumstances pertaining to the 
taxpayer if the taxpayer fails to file its declaration on time, to keep precise 
accounts, books, and records, or to comply with the form, declaration form, 
and method required in its books and records. 
C. The Department may reallocate revenues and expenses in transactions 
among related parties or parties under the same body, so as to reflect the 
returns  that  would  have  resulted  if  the  parties  were  independent  and 
unrelated.  
D. A taxpayer may not deduct a loss resulting from the transfer of properties 
between it and a party related thereto. Unless otherwise provided for by this 
Law, the loss deduction shall be suspended until the related party disposes 
of the properties to another unrelated party. 
E. If an individual taxpayer splits its income and divides it with another person, 
the Department may adjust the tax base of the taxpayer and that of the other 
  21 

NEW PAGE

Income Tax Law 
 
 
 
person to prevent any reduction in the due tax.  
F. For the purpose of this Article, income splitting means: 
1. Transfer of income, directly or indirectly, from one person to another 
related thereto. 
2. Transfer of properties, including money, directly or indirectly, from one 
person to another related thereto, which leads to the other person’s 
realization of an income from such properties, if the reason or one of the 
reasons for the transfer is to lower the total tax due upon the income of 
the transferor or the transferee. 
G. The  Department  may  consider  the  value  given  by  the  transferee  in 
determining whether the taxpayer is seeking to split income.  
Article 64: Related Persons and Persons under Common Control 
A. A natural person shall be considered related to another natural person if said 
person is a spouse or an in-law thereof, or a relative up to the fourth degree.  
B. A natural person is considered related to companies of any type in the 
following circumstances: 
1. If he is a partner in a partnership and he, either alone or together with a 
related person or persons under this Article, controls 50% or more of the 
rights  to  its  income  or  capital,  either  directly  or  indirectly,  through  a 
subsidiary company or companies of any type. 
2. If he is a partner in a capital company and he, either alone or together with 
a related person or persons under this Article, controls 50% or more of the 
voting rights or its value, either directly or indirectly, through a subsidiary 
company or companies of any type. 
3. As for agencies that administer properties endowed for specific purposes, 
a natural person is deemed related thereto if he benefits or is capable of 
benefiting from them, either alone or with a related person or persons, in 
accordance with this Article. 
C. Companies and agencies shall be deemed under common control if the 
same person or related persons control 50% or more according to this Article 
as follows: 
1. With respect to partnerships, control means the ownership of rights to its 
income  or  capital,  either  directly  or  indirectly,  through  a  subsidiary 
company or companies of any type. 
2. With respect to capital companies, control means ownership of the voting 
rights therein or ownership of its value, either directly or indirectly, through 
a subsidiary company or companies of any type.  
3. With respect to agencies that administrate properties endowed for specific 
purposes, control means the possession of a beneficial interest in their 
income or assets. 
  22 

NEW PAGE

Income Tax Law 
 
 
 
Article 65: Statutory Period of Tax Assessment  
A. The Department may, with a reasoned notification, make or amend a tax 
assessment within five years of the deadline specified for filing the tax 
declaration for the taxable year, or at any time, upon the written consent of 
the taxpayer. 
B. The Department may make or amend an assessment within 10 years of the 
deadline specified for filing the tax declaration for the taxable year if a 
taxpayer does not file its tax declaration, or it is found that the declaration is 
incomplete or incorrect with the intent of tax evasion. 
C. A taxpayer may request a refund of overpaid amounts at any time within five 
years from the end of the taxable year in which the amounts were overpaid. 
Article 66 
A. A person against whom a penalty decision has been rendered may appeal 
such decision before the Tax Dispute and Violation Settlement Committee 
within 30 days from the date of knowledge thereof. Otherwise, such decision 
shall be deemed final and non-appealable before any other judicial body.  
B. If the subject matter of the appeal relates to an assessment decision, the 
appeal  shall  have  no  effect  on  the  taxpayer's  obligation  to  pay  the 
uncontested tax amount due under the Law. 
Article 67 
1. A committee named the Tax Dispute and Violation Settlement Committee 
shall be formed, and it shall be entrusted with the following:  
a) Settlement of disputes and conflicts, as well as civil and criminal lawsuits 
arising from the application of tax laws and regulations, as well as the 
decisions and directives related thereto.  
b) Settlement  of  appeals  filed  against  the  Authority's  decisions  in 
implementation of tax laws and regulations, as well as the decisions and 
directives related thereto 
c) The  Committee  shall  have  the  powers  necessary  to  investigate  and 
decide on disputes falling within its jurisdiction, including the power to 
summon  witnesses,  issue  subpoenas  for  documents  and  evidence, 
render decisions, and impose penalties.  
2. The Committee shall be composed of a number of circuits; each circuit being 
entrusted with a particular tax law.  
3. Each circuit shall be composed of three members and a fourth substitute 
member having legal or accounting qualifications and experience, provided 
that the head of the circuit and at least one of its members have legal 
qualifications,  and  the  circuit  shall  not  include  members  from  agencies 
overseeing tax-related activities. The head of each circuit and its members 
shall be appointed pursuant to a royal order for a renewable term of four 
years. Upon the lapse of such term without the change or renewal of circuit 
  23 

NEW PAGE

Income Tax Law 
 
 
 
members, such members shall continue to carry out their duties pending the 
issuance of a royal order.  
4. Committee decisions shall be passed by majority vote and may be appealed 
before the committee referred to in paragraph (5) of this Article within 30 
days of the date of knowledge thereof; otherwise, they shall be deemed final.  
5. A committee named the Tax Dispute and Violation Appellate Committee 
shall be formed, and it shall be entrusted with deciding on objections filed 
against  the  decisions  of  the  Tax  Dispute  and  Violation  Settlement 
Committee. 
6. The Appellate Committee shall be composed of a number of specialized 
circuits. Each circuit shall be composed of three members and a fourth 
substitute  member  having  higher  legal  or  accounting  qualifications  and 
experience, provided that the head of the circuit and at least one of its 
members have legal qualifications, and the circuit shall not include members 
from agencies overseeing tax-related activities. The head of each circuit and 
its members shall be appointed pursuant to a royal order for a renewable 
term of four years. Upon the lapse of such term without the change or 
renewal of circuit members, such members shall continue to carry out their 
duties pending the issuance of a royal order. 
7. Appellate Committee decisions shall be passed by majority vote and shall be 
deemed final and non-appealable before any other judicial body.  
8. Tax dispute lawsuits may not be heard upon the lapse of five years from the 
maturity date of the amount subject of the claim or the date of knowledge of 
the  incident  subject  to  the  dispute,  except  in  the  presence  of  grounds 
acceptable by the Committee.  
9. The Appellate Committee shall, within 60 days from the date of appointment 
of its members, set the work procedures of the Committees referred to in 
paragraphs (1) and (5) of this Article, to be issued by a royal order upon 
submission by the Chairman of the Authority's Board of Directors.  
10. The Authority's Board of Directors shall determine the remuneration of the 
Committees' members, advisors, staff, and secretariat.  
11. The Authority shall provide the Committees with the human and financial 
resources necessary for the discharge of their duties, in accordance with 
the rules referred to in paragraph (9) of this Article. 
Chapter 13: Tax Collection 
Article 68: Tax Withholding  
A. Every resident, whether or not a taxpayer according to this Law, and every 
permanent establishment of a nonresident in the Kingdom which pays an 
amount to a nonresident from a source in the Kingdom shall withhold tax 
from the paid amount according to the following rates: 
  24 

NEW PAGE

Income Tax Law 
 
 
 
1. Rent: 5%. 
2. Royalty or proceeds: 15%. 
3. Management fees: 20%. 
4. Payments for airline tickets, air or sea freight: 5%. 
5. Payments for international telecommunication services: 5%. 
6. Any other payments specified in the Regulations, provided that the tax 
rate does not exceed 15%.  
7. In case of amounts paid by a natural person, the conditions for withholding 
stipulated under this Article shall apply to the payments pertaining to his 
activity.  
B. A person withholding tax under this Article shall comply with the following: 
1. Registering with the Department and paying the amount withheld to the 
Department within the first 10 days of the month following the month of 
payment to the beneficiary.  
2. Providing the beneficiary with a certificate stating the amount paid to him 
and the value of the withheld tax.  
3. Providing  the  Department,  at  the  end  of  the  taxable  year,  with  the 
beneficiary’s  name,  address,  and  registration  number  (identification 
number), if available, along with any other information the Department 
may require. 
4. Maintaining the records required to prove the accuracy of the withheld tax 
as specified by the Regulations. 
C. The person responsible for withholding tax under this Article is personally 
liable to pay the unpaid tax and any delay fines resulting therefrom in 
accordance with Article 77(a) of this Law, if any of the following cases applies 
to him: 
1. If he fails to withhold tax as required. 
2. If he withholds tax, but fails to pay the tax to the Department as required.  
3. If he fails to report withholding statements to the Department as stipulated 
under subparagraph (3) of paragraph (b) of this Article. 
D. In addition to what is stated in paragraph (b) of this Article, if tax is not 
withheld in accordance with the provisions of this Article, the beneficiary 
remains  indebted  to  the  Department  for  the  amount  of  tax  and  the 
Department may recover it from him, or his agent or sponsor. 
E. Without prejudice to paragraphs (f) and (g) of this Article, if an amount is paid 
to  a  nonresident  and  tax  is  withheld  from  him  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of this Article, said tax shall be final, taking into consideration that 
no further tax shall be imposed on the income from which the tax was 
withheld, and that the amounts paid as tax in accordance with this Article is 
not refunded. 
F. If the amount referred to in this Article is paid to a nonresident who conducts 
  25 

NEW PAGE

Income Tax Law 
 
 
 
business  in  the  Kingdom  through  a  permanent  establishment,  and  the 
amount paid is directly connected with the business of the establishment, 
such  amount  shall  be  calculated  in  determining  the  tax  base  of  the 
nonresident. 
G. If tax is withheld for an amount paid to a taxpayer which is included in its tax 
base, the withheld tax shall be deducted from the tax due on the taxpayer 
against the tax base. 
H. For the purposes of this Article and Article 5 of this Law, services shall mean 
any work performed for a compensation, except for the purchase and sale of 
goods or any other properties. 
Article 69: Tax Payment 
A taxpayer shall pay its due tax in accordance with its declaration within 120 
days from the end of its taxable year.  
Article 70: Advance Payments of Tax 
A. Without prejudice to paragraph (b) of this Article, a taxpayer who realizes 
income in the taxable year shall pay three advance payments of tax on or 
prior to the last day of the sixth, ninth, and twelfth months of the taxable year. 
The amount of payment is calculated using the following equation: 
25% x (A – B) where: 
A = The taxpayer’s tax for the preceding year according to its declaration.  
B = The amount of tax paid in the preceding year by withholding from the 
source in accordance with Article 68 of this Law. 
B. A  taxpayer  shall  not  be  obligated  to  make  advance  payments  under 
paragraph (a) of this Article, if the result of the above equation is less than 
500,000 riyals. 
C. The Department has the power to reduce any of the payments due under 
this Article if it is convinced that the taxpayer’s income for the taxable year, 
with the exception of the income of which tax is withheld from the source 
under Article 68 of this Law, shall be substantially less than the income of 
the preceding year. 
D. A payment made pursuant to this Article shall be considered an advanced 
payment against the taxpayer’s total tax for the taxable year for which the 
payment was made. 
E. The provisions of this Law relating to the collection of tax and its mandatory 
procedures shall apply to advance payments of tax as they apply to the tax 
itself. 
Article 71: Payment of Tax in Installments 
A. The Minister has the power to allow payment in installments for amounts due 
on a taxpayer whenever enough reasons and justifications exist within the 
framework of requirements and conditions specified by the Regulations. The 
  26 

NEW PAGE

Income Tax Law 
 
 
 
Minister may delegate what he deems fit of this authority to the Director 
General of the Department. Further, the Minister, or his designee, may 
cancel the installment arrangement if he finds that the accruals of the Public 
Treasury are subject to loss. 
B. Payment of tax in  installments in accordance with this Article shall not 
exempt the taxpayer from the payment of the delay fine for the period of 
installments pursuant to Article 77(a) of this Law. 
Article 72: Refund of Overpayment 
In the case of an overpayment of tax, the taxpayer shall be entitled to a refund 
of the excess amount together with a compensation at a rate of 1% for every 
30 days, beginning 30 days after its claim and continuing until the taxpayer 
receives the amount. 
Article 73: Seizure of the Taxpayer's Properties  
A. If a taxpayer fails to pay the tax due by the dates specified by law, the 
Department may seize the taxpayer's movable and immovable properties as 
allowed by Sharia. The Department may proceed with the procedures of 
seizure after the passage of 20 days from the taxpayer’s receipt of the 
Department’s notice of its intention of seizure.  
B. Any person, including banks and financial institutions, holding in possession 
a seized asset shall deliver the asset to the Department upon its request.  
C. A bank or financial institution shall refrain from allowing withdrawals or other 
payments from the taxpayer's bank account after receiving notice of the 
Department’s intention to seize the taxpayer’s account. 
D. A person not complying with the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Article shall be obligated to pay the Department an amount equal to the value 
of the properties in its possession, not exceeding the amount for which the 
seizure was made. 
E. Tools used by the taxpayer for its trade and personal effects and furnishings 
are exempt from seizure, with a maximum limit not exceeding 300,000 riyals.  
Article 74: Sale of Seized Property 
A. The Department shall, through the competent body, sell properties seized in 
accordance with the provisions of seizure. 
B. The expenses of the seizure and sale shall be paid first from the sales 
returns, then the tax and fines. Any remaining amount shall be returned to 
the taxpayer. 
C. Sale of the taxpayer's properties shall be suspended during the period of the 
administrative or judicial review of the assessment on the basis of which the 
seizure was made, except for: 
1. perishable properties; and  
2. properties sold by the Department upon the taxpayer’s request. 
  27 

NEW PAGE

Income Tax Law 
 
 
 
Article 75: Seizure of Funds Due to the Taxpayer  
A. Following  seizure,  the  Department  may  issue  notices  to  third  parties, 
including employers, banks, or financial institutions, ordering direct payment 
to the Department of any funds the third party owes the taxpayer on or after 
the date of receipt of the seizure notification. 
B. A notice may be issued to the taxpayer's employer, and its validity may be 
limited to a specified period. 
C. The  monthly  maintenance  due  upon  the  taxpayer  as  well  as  its  living 
expenses stipulated by the provisions of other laws in force shall not be 
subject to seizure. 
D. A person complying with the provisions of this Article and Articles 73 and 74 
of this Law shall be exempted from any obligations to the taxpayer or any 
other person, regarding the value of properties seized from the time of its 
compliance.  
Chapter 14: Fines 
Article 76: Fines for Failure to File the Declaration 
A. A taxpayer not complying with the provisions of Article 60(a, b, d, and f) of 
this Law, shall be subject to a fine of 1% of its gross income, provided that 
the fine does not exceed 20,000 riyals. 
B. In case of failure to file the declaration within the prescribed time, the 
following fine shall be imposed in lieu of the fine stipulated under paragraph 
(a) of this Article, if the fine under paragraph (a) is less than the amount 
specified under this paragraph:  
1. 5% of the unpaid tax if the delay does not exceed 30 days of the date 
specified by law.  
2. 10% of the unpaid tax if the delay is more than 30 days and less than 90 
days of the date specified by law.  
3. 20% of the unpaid tax if the delay is more than 90 days and less than 365 
days of the date specified by law.  
4. 25% of the unpaid tax if the delay exceeds 365 days of the date specified 
by law. 
C. Unpaid tax shall mean the difference between the amount of tax due under 
this Law and the amount paid on the date specified by law under Article 60(b) 
of this Law. 
Article 77: Delay and Fraud Fines 
A. In addition to the fines stipulated in Article 76 of this Law and in paragraph 
(b) of this Article, a taxpayer shall pay a delay fine of 1% for every 30 days 
of delay on unpaid tax, including delays in the payment of tax required to be 
  28 

NEW PAGE

Income Tax Law 
 
 
 
withheld and advance payments. It shall be calculated from the tax due date 
until the date of payment. 
B. In addition to the fines stipulated in Article 76 of this Law and in paragraph 
(a) of this Article, a taxpayer shall be subject to a fine of 25% of the difference 
in tax resulting from the provision of false information or fraud with the 
intention of tax evasion by the taxpayer or his certified accountant, and 
particularly in the following cases: 
1. Submitting false books, records, accounts, or documents that do not 
reflect the true status of the taxpayer. 
2. Filing a declaration on the basis of the lack of books or records, and 
including  therein  information  that  contradicts  what  is  shown  in  the 
taxpayer’s books and records. 
3. Filing forged or fictitious invoices or documents, or altering purchase or 
sale invoices or other documents with the intention of understating profits 
or overstating losses. 
4. Failing to declare one or more taxable activities. 
5. Destroying  or  hiding  books,  records,  or  documents  prior  to  the 
Department’s examination. 
Article 78: Liability of Certified Accountants 
Without  prejudice  to  the  Certified  Accountants  Law,  the  Department  may 
prosecute any certified accountant proven to have presented or certified false 
statements, which constitutes a violation of established accounting principles 
with the intention of assisting the taxpayer to evade all or part of the tax. 
Chapter 15: The Minister’s Powers 
Article 79: The Minister’s Powers 
The Minister shall have the following powers:  
A. Issuing the Implementing Regulations of this Law. 
B. Issuing  instructions  and  taking  measures  he  deems  necessary  for  the 
implementation of this Law. 
C. Amending the depreciation groups and rates stipulated in Article 17 of this 
Law. 
D. Canceling tax debts and fines that have been determined uncollectible. The 
Regulations shall specify the cases where collection is impossible.  
E. Granting  the  remunerations  of  outstanding  employees  pursuant  to 
recommendations by the Department’s Director General. The Regulations 
shall specify the conditions and restrictions for such remuneration.  
  29 

NEW PAGE

Income Tax Law 
 
 
 
Chapter 16: Concluding Provisions 
Article 80: The Law’s Entry into Force  
A. This Law shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall enter into force 
after 90 days from its publication date. 
B. This Law shall apply to taxable years beginning after the date of its entry into 
force. As for taxable years starting on or prior to the date of its entry into 
force, they shall be subject to tax laws in effect prior to the issuance of this 
Law. 
C. This Law shall repeal the Income Tax Law issued by Royal Decree No. 
(3321) dated 21/1/1370H and its amendments, the Law of Additional Income 
Tax on Companies Engaged in Production of Oil and Hydrocarbons issued 
by Royal Decree No. (7634) dated 16/3/1370H and its amendments, and the 
Natural Gas Investment Tax Law issued by Royal Decree No. (M/37) dated 
25/6/1424H. 
D. Tax withholding provisions stipulated in Article 68 of this Law shall become 
effective from the date the Law enters into force. 
Article 81: Transitional Provisions 
A. In case of acquiring an asset in a taxable year prior to the effectiveness of 
this Law, the value to be added to the appropriate group shall be the cost of 
the  asset  minus  any  depreciation  deduction  previously  granted  to  the 
taxpayer. 
B. Operational losses incurred before the entry into force of Council of Ministers’ 
Resolution No. (3) dated 5/1/1421H may not be carried forward. 
C. Operational losses incurred by the taxpayer during a tax exemption period 
may not be carried forward. 
  30 

NEW PAGE
Law of Commercial Courts 
 
Royal Decree No. M/93 
April 8, 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Translation of Saudi Laws 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Courts 
 
 
 
NOTE: 
The translation of Saudi laws takes the following into consideration: 
•  Words used in the singular form include the plural and vice versa.  
•  Words used in the masculine form include the feminine.  
•  Words used in the present tense include the present as well as the future.  
•  The word “person” or “persons” and their related pronouns (he, his, him, they, 
their, them) refer to a natural and legal person.  
 
   
  2 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Courts 
 
 
 
Law of Commercial Courts 
Part 1: General Provisions 
Article 1 
In this Law, the following terms shall have the meanings assigned thereto, 
unless the context requires otherwise: 
Law: Law of Commercial Courts. 
Regulations: Implementing regulations of this Law. 
Council: Supreme Judicial Council. 
Court: Commercial Court. 
Ministry: Ministry of Justice. 
Minister: Minister of Justice. 
Party: A party to a lawsuit or claim. 
Article 2 
Without  prejudice  to  the  provisions  of  commercial  laws  and  international 
conventions to which the Kingdom is party, the provisions of this Law and its 
Regulations  shall  apply  to  the  commercial  court  and  to  cases  under  its 
jurisdiction. 
Article 3 
The Supreme Judicial Council shall, in accordance with its jurisdiction, consider 
the following: 
1. Establishing commercial courts in various provinces and counties of the 
Kingdom as needed, provided that each court comprises appellate circuits 
and circuits of first instance. 
2. Forming appellate circuits and circuits of first instance within commercial 
courts to be composed of three judges; however, circuits may be composed 
of a single judge in accordance with this Law. 
Article 4 
1. The chief judge of the commercial court shall oversee the court and name 
the judges of its circuits and its staff in accordance with rules determined by 
the Council. 
2. Selection of competent judicial aides shall be in accordance with legal 
procedures. The commercial court may recruit Sharia and law graduates or 
their equivalent pursuant to rules issued by the Minister in coordination with 
the Minister of Human Resources and Social Development. 
3.  The Regulations shall determine the responsibilities and tasks of judicial 
aides. 
  3 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Courts 
 
 
 
Article 5 
Without prejudice to the independence of the judiciary and due process, the 
commercial court may seek the assistance of the private sector to carry out: 
1. mediation and reconciliation; 
2. notification and service of process; 
3. registry of cases and claims and delivery of court judgments; 
4. managing hearing rooms; 
5. exchange of memoranda and access to documents; 
6. expert-related procedures; 
7. documenting evidentiary procedures; and  
8. managing specialized departments of the commercial court. 
The Regulations shall specify the procedures for the implementation of this 
Article. 
Article 6 
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Law and the Law of Civil Procedure, and 
without prejudice to public policy and the rules of justice, the parties to a 
commercial transaction, if both are merchants, may agree on specific litigation 
procedures and other litigation-related matters. 
Article 7 
Any of the procedures stipulated in this Law may be carried out via electronic 
means,  including  filing,  registering,  and  hearing  claims  and  petitions,  and 
pleading, exchanging memorandums, rendering judgments, and filing appeals. 
The Regulations shall determine the procedures for enforcing the provisions of 
this  Article,  including  the  provisions  related  to  the  time  frame  for  such 
procedures. 
Article 8 
The Regulations shall specify the following: 
1. Mediation  and  reconciliation  procedures,  including  cases  that  must  be 
preceded by mediation or reconciliation, provided that such procedures do 
not exceed 30 days from the date of initiation, unless the parties agree on a 
longer period of time. 
2. Class action procedures, which shall include determining these claims and 
consideration and ruling procedures. 
3. Procedures for small claims, which shall include determining these claims 
and consideration and ruling procedures. 
Article 9 
1. Process shall be deemed to have been served in accordance with the 
provisions of this Law if delivered to any of the following addresses: 
a) The parties’ verified or selected electronic address. 
b) The domicile of a natural or legal person, unless a different address is 
  4 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Courts 
 
 
 
selected. 
c) The official postal address registered with the competent agency. 
d) The address registered in the commercial register for the business activity 
connected with said register. 
e) The address provided by a person in any document related to the case or 
claim, or memoranda submitted to the commercial court pertaining to the 
same case. 
f)  The address indicated in the contract subject of the dispute. 
g) The address a foreigner selects in the Kingdom. 
2. A natural or legal person may select a lawyer’s address to which process is 
served;  such  address  shall  be  subject  to  the  provisions  governing  the 
address of such person. 
3. If a party changes the address in the documents stated in paragraph (e) of 
this Article, he shall notify the commercial court within 48 hours of the date 
of such change; otherwise, any process served to the previous address shall 
be deemed valid. 
Article 10 
1. Service of process to the electronic address referred to in Article 9(1)(a) of 
this Law shall be carried out as follows: 
a) Sending a message to a verified mobile phone number. 
b) Sending a message to the verified or selected e-mail address. 
c) Notifying a user of an e-government service account upon access thereof.  
2. Process shall be served to any of the addresses referred to in Article 9(1)(b, 
c, d, e, f, and g) of this Law through any licensed postal service provider, and 
shall be deemed to have been delivered by submitting a proof of delivery 
issued by the postal service provider. 
Article 11 
Absent a specific provision, the process shall be served as follows: 
1. For a natural person: to his permanent or temporary domicile, workplace, or 
any other place where he is located, or a place that belongs to his agent or 
to  any  colleague  working  at  the  workplace  related  to  the  commercial 
transaction subject of the claim. 
2. For companies: to the legal representative, any of the partners, the manager 
or his representative, or the legal department or the department tasked with 
receiving correspondence. If the claim relates to a company branch, the 
process may be served to the manager of that branch or his designee. 
3. For foreign companies with a branch or a commercial representative in the 
Kingdom: to the manager of the branch or the commercial representative, or 
their designees. 
4. For other legal persons: to their legal representatives or their designees. 
5. For administrative agencies: to the relevant minister or chairman of the 
institution or agency, or their designees. 
  5 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Courts 
 
 
 
6. For a commercial vessel: to its owner, charterer, master, or their agents, if 
the claim is related to the vessel. 
Article 12 
Without prejudice to international conventions, a notice may be served to a 
person residing outside the Kingdom in accordance with Articles 9, 10, and 11 
of this Law, provided an agreement to such effect exists between the parties.  
Article 13 
1. Without prejudice to any other penalty provided for by another law, the 
commercial court may decide to impose a fine not exceeding 10,000 riyals; 
its decision shall be final if a party disrupts the proceedings of the case or 
the order of the hearing. 
2. Data, papers, and documents of a commercial case may be made available 
for public access in return for a fee equal to the service cost. 
However, certain papers or documents of a commercial case may, at the 
request of a concerned party, be designated as confidential and be disclosed 
only to the commercial court, without prejudice to the rules governing open 
hearings or the provisions of relevant laws. The Regulations shall determine 
the necessary procedures and rules. 
Article 14 
1. The Regulations shall specify the periods necessary for case proceedings, 
taking into account the nature of commercial cases; this shall include the 
number of hearing sessions, their type, recording procedures, dates, time 
between sessions, and causes for adjournment. 
2. Cases,  petitions,  memoranda,  documents,  and  reports  shall  be  filed  in 
accordance with the procedures determined and forms designated by the 
Ministry; such procedures and forms shall be approved by the Minister. 
Part 2: Jurisdiction 
Article 15 
Absent a specific provision in commercial laws or international treaties and 
conventions to which the Kingdom is party, the rules of international jurisdiction 
stipulated in the Law of Civil Procedure shall apply to cases that fall within the 
jurisdiction of the commercial court. 
Article 16 
The commercial court shall have jurisdiction to consider the following: 
1. Disputes  arising  between  merchants  due  to  their  main  or  supporting 
business activities.  
2. Cases filed against a merchant in commercial contract disputes if the original 
  6 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Courts 
 
 
 
claim exceeds 100,000 riyals. The Council may, if necessary, raise the limit 
of such amount. 
3. Disputes between partners in a Mudaraba company. 
4. Claims and violations arising from the implementation of the Companies 
Law. 
5. Claims and violations arising from the implementation of the Bankruptcy 
Law. 
6. Claims and violations arising from the implementation of intellectual property 
laws. 
7. Claims and violations arising from the implementation of other commercial 
laws. 
8. Cases  and  claims  related  to  appointed  judicial  receivers,  trustees, 
liquidators, or experts, and the like, if the dispute is related to cases falling 
under the jurisdiction of the court. 
9. Claims for compensation for damages arising from a previous ruling issued 
by the court. 
Article 17 
1. Where this Law is silent and unless the parties agree otherwise in writing, 
the commercial court having jurisdiction over the dispute shall be the court 
within whose jurisdiction the defendant’s domicile is located. If the defendant 
does not have a domicile in the Kingdom, the jurisdiction over the dispute 
shall be with the court within whose jurisdiction the plaintiff’s domicile is 
located.  A  claim  may  be  brought  before  the  commercial  court  having 
jurisdiction over the place where the contract was concluded, executed, or 
intended to be executed. 
2. In claims pertaining to companies, the commercial court having territorial 
jurisdiction over the dispute shall be the court within whose jurisdiction the 
company’s headquarters is located, irrespective of whether the claim is filed 
against the company; by the company against one of its partners; by one 
partner against another; or against a manager or board member. The claim 
may be filed with the court having jurisdiction over a company’s branch if the 
dispute arises from a contract concluded with said branch. 
Article 18 
The commercial court may, independent from other motions, rule on lack of 
subject-matter jurisdiction within a period not exceeding 20 days from the 
motion date. 
Part 3: Claim Registration 
Article 19 
1. In  claims  determined  by  the  Regulations,  a  plaintiff  shall  require  the 
defendant in writing to satisfy the claim at least 15 days prior to initiation of 
legal proceedings.  
  7 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Courts 
 
 
 
2. Parties to a commercial transaction, prior to registering a claim and under 
the commercial court’s supervision, may: 
a) engage in mediation and reconciliation procedures; 
b) exchange documents and memoranda; and 
c) hold meetings to set forth claims, defenses, and evidence. 
The  Regulations  shall  determine  the  provisions  for  implementing  this 
paragraph, including procedures for documenting actions taken. 
Article 20 
1. A claim shall be filed with the commercial court by means of a statement of 
claim registered therewith. The Regulations shall specify the claims to be 
filed by a lawyer. 
2. The statement of claim shall include: 
a) particulars and addresses of the parties and their representatives and 
their capacities, as well as the data and documents determined by the 
Regulations; and 
b) a list of demands and grounds therefor. 
3. A statement of claim shall not include unrelated demands. 
Article 21 
1. The relevant department of the commercial court shall register the statement 
of claim if it meets the requirements stipulated in Article 20 of this Law. 
2. If the department does not register the applicant’s claim for being incomplete 
and  the  applicant  is  notified  thereof,  the  applicant  shall  complete  the 
requirements within 15 days from the date of notification. If the claim is 
registered upon satisfaction of the requirements, the claim shall be deemed 
registered as of the date of submission. If the applicant fails to complete the 
requirements within said period, the application shall be deemed null and 
void. In all cases, the department shall record the date of submitting the 
application for registration. 
3. An applicant whose application for registration is declined may appeal before 
the chief judge of the commercial court within 15 days from the date of being 
notified thereof. The chief judge or his designee from among court judges, 
shall decide on the appeal, and his decision shall be final. 
Article 22 
1. The relevant department shall refer cases and claims to the circuits in 
accordance  with  the  Regulations,  set  a  hearing  date,  and  notify  the 
defendant immediately after referral. 
2. A defendant shall, except in summary petitions, register with the commercial 
court a defense memorandum that includes his response to the claim and all 
his defenses, evidence, and demands at least one day before the scheduled 
hearing. 
  8 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Courts 
 
 
 
Article 23 
The relevant department of the commercial court shall prepare the case by 
undertaking the following: 
1. Ensuring completion of case documents. 
2. Notifying the parties. 
3. Exchanging memoranda and documents. 
4. Preparing an initial report on the case. 
The Regulations shall determine the implementation of this Article. 
Article 24 
Absent a specific provision, the statute of limitations for claims falling under the 
jurisdiction of the commercial court shall be five years from the date of the cause 
of action, unless the defendant confirms the claim or the claimant presents an 
acceptable justification to the court. 
Part 4: Consideration of the Case 
Article 25 
1. Cases shall be distributed among the members of a circuit according to 
procedures set by the Council. 
2. Court proceedings and pleadings shall be in writing; however, the circuit may 
hear the statements by the parties orally. The parties may request the 
commercial court to hear an oral summary of their statements and defenses 
at the conclusion of their pleadings, and the court shall record the same in 
the hearing record. 
3. The Regulations shall determine the cases where the pleadings must be 
brought by a lawyer. 
Article 26 
If any of the parties unjustifiably fails to satisfy the requirements made by the 
commercial court within the specified time, the court may: 
1. impose the fine stipulated in Article 13(1) of this Law; its decision in this 
regard shall be final; or 
2. reject the party’s responses and counterclaims.  
Article 27 
1. The Regulations shall determine the number and type of hearings, as well 
as  procedures  for  their  scheduling  and  recording,  and  reasons  for 
adjournment. 
2. A hearing may not be adjourned, except for a reason necessitating such 
adjournment which shall be entered into the record. A hearing may not be 
adjourned for the same reason more than once. 
  9 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Courts 
 
 
 
Article 28 
1. The circuit may appoint one of its judges to prepare the case for pleadings, 
including the following: 
a) Ensuring  completion  of  memoranda  and  documents,  summoning  the 
concerned parties to confirm the veracity of facts, as well as the joining 
and admission of a party to a case. 
b) Preparing a summary of the case.  
2. The commercial court or the judge in charge of preparing the case may 
require exchange of memoranda and documents between the parties, or 
grant them permission to submit the same to the relevant department. 
3. The provisions of Article 26 of this Law shall apply to the procedures for case 
preparation and exchange of memoranda. 
Article 29 
1. The clerk shall draft the hearing record under the supervision of the presiding 
judge. The Regulations shall specify the information to be included in the 
record. 
2. If the parties agree on reconciliation before the circuit, such agreement shall 
be established in the hearing record which shall be signed by the parties and 
approved by the presiding judge. The hearing record shall be deemed an 
enforcement document, and a copy thereof shall be delivered according to 
the procedures for service of court orders. The case shall terminate upon 
such agreement. 
3. The parties to the case, or their designees, may have access to case 
documents or obtain copies thereof. 
Part 5: Appearance and Absence of Litigants 
Article 30 
1. If a process is served to a defendant in person, or to his representative, or if 
either of them appears before the commercial court at any  hearing, or 
submits a defense memorandum, the hearing shall be deemed to have been 
conducted in the presence of the defendant, even if he fails to appear 
thereafter. 
2. If a defendant or his representative was not served in person and fails to 
appear before the court, the court shall adjourn the hearing to a subsequent 
date, and serve the defendant thereof. If the defendant or his representative 
was not served in person for the second time and fails to appear, the court 
shall rule on the case, and its ruling against the defendant shall be deemed 
to have been rendered in his presence. 
3. In all cases, a process served to a legal person in accordance with this Law 
shall be deemed a service in person. 
4. The Regulations shall specify the cases where a process is deemed not to 
have been served in person. 
  10 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Courts 
 
 
 
Article 31 
1. If a claimant fails to appear at any hearing without a reason acceptable to 
the commercial court, the court may rule on the case at the request of the 
defendant if the case is ripe for judgment, and such ruling shall be deemed 
to have been rendered in the presence of the claimant; if not, the court may 
dismiss the case without prejudice. A claimant may request the court to 
proceed with the case within 30 days from the date of said dismissal. If the 
claimant does not file a petition to proceed with the case within said period 
or if he fails to appear before the court after reopening the case, the court 
shall, upon its own motion, issue a ruling considering the case to have not 
been filed. 
2. Paragraph (1) of this Article shall not apply to any hearing the court sets after 
the closing of arguments.  
Article 32 
For the application of the provisions of this Part, a person shall not be deemed 
absent if he appears prior to the end of the scheduled time of the hearing. The 
Regulations shall determine the provisions governing the duration of hearings 
and appearance of parties. 
Part 6: Summary Petitions 
Article 33 
A circuit of first instance may, pursuant to a decision by the Council, be 
established at the commercial court, and shall be composed of a single judge 
with jurisdiction to consider summary petitions and other petitions determined 
by the Council. 
Article 34 
A summary petition shall be referred to the competent circuit immediately after 
filing, and shall be decided upon within a period not exceeding three working 
days from the date of referral. A summary petition may, if necessary, be decided 
on in the presence of the applicant and without the presence of the other party. 
Article 35 
1. A court ruling issued with regard to summary petitions shall expire in the 
following cases: 
a) If the party in whose favor the ruling is issued fails to file the original claim 
within seven days from the date of issuance. 
b) If the claimant abandons the case, or the commercial court issues a ruling 
considering the case to have not been filed, in accordance with this Law. 
c) If no judgment in favor of the claimant is rendered on the original petitions 
in the case related to the summary petition. 
  11 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Courts 
 
 
 
2. Any concerned party may petition revocation of the court ruling issued with 
regard to a summary petition in the following cases: 
a) The state of urgency ceases to exist. 
b) Suspension of case proceedings at the request of the litigants. 
c) Discontinuance of case proceedings. 
d) Dismissal of the case. 
The procedures for considering summary petitions shall apply to revocation 
petitions. 
Article 36 
Summary petitions shall apply to: 
1. inspection to verify an existing state; 
2. travel ban; 
3. suspension of new actions; 
4. receivership; 
5. provisional seizure; 
6. collection of a sample of a product; 
7. seizure of certain documents; 
8. prevention or permission of disposition; and 
9. petitions deemed urgent under commercial laws. 
Article 37 
The commercial court may, upon considering a summary petition, require a 
security to indemnify the defendant in case the claimant’s claim is found to have 
no merit. A ruling indemnifying the defendant shall be rendered along with the 
ruling on the subject matter. 
Part 7: Evidence 
Chapter 1: General Provisions 
Article 38 
1. Absent a specific provision in commercial laws, the provisions of this Chapter 
shall apply to evidentiary procedures in cases falling within the jurisdiction of 
the commercial court. 
2. No specific evidentiary form shall be required to prove liability, unless the 
parties agree otherwise. 
3. The court may acknowledge evidentiary procedures applied in a foreign 
country, provided that such procedures do not violate public policy. 
4. Without prejudice to public policy, if the parties agree on specific evidentiary 
rules, the court shall validate their agreement. 
  12 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Courts 
 
 
 
5. Where this Law is silent, the parties may agree on shifting the burden of 
proof. 
Article 39 
The commercial court may, pursuant to a decision established in the hearing 
record, abandon the evidentiary procedures it has ordered or disregard their 
outcomes; in such cases, the court shall provide justification.  
Chapter 2: Admission 
Article 40 
1. An  admission  shall  be  deemed  judicial  if  a  party  admits  before  the 
commercial court the occurrence of an incident relating to a case being 
considered thereby. 
2. The provision of paragraph (1) of this Article shall apply to any admission 
made during the procedures for preparation of the case or exchange of 
memoranda. 
3. The court may deduce judicial admission from written evidence submitted in 
a case under its consideration. 
Article 41 
The  commercial  court  may  assess  non-judicial  admissions  based  on 
procedures taken to authenticate such admissions. 
Chapter 3: Writing 
Article 42 
1. A party shall be bound by the statements he provides in official documents, 
unless proven false. 
2. An ordinary paper shall be deemed to have been issued by the person to 
whom  it  is  ascribed,  unless  he  explicitly  denies  that  the  handwriting, 
signature, seal, or fingerprint therein belongs to him.  
Article 43 
1. A copy of a document shall be deemed an identical copy unless disputed by 
a concerned party; in such case, the copy shall be compared against the 
original.  
2. A copy of a document disputed by a concerned party which cannot be 
compared against the original may be used as presumptive evidence if:  
a) it is kept with a government agency; 
b) its data is recorded with a government agency; 
  13 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Courts 
 
 
 
c) the litigant argues its content before denying its authenticity; or 
d) it is supported by another proof. 
Article 44 
Correspondence, whether signed or proven to belong to its sender, shall be 
deemed an ordinary paper, unless the sender proves that he neither sent the 
message nor assigned another person to send it. 
Article 45 
A creditor shall be bound by a handwritten and unsigned indorsement he makes 
on a deed of debt indicating the debtor's clearance of debt, unless proven 
otherwise. 
Article 46 
1. A party shall have the right to request or have access to case-relevant 
documents in possession of the other party if such documents are: 
a) clearly defined per se or by their type; 
b) related to a commercial transaction or lead to the truth therein; and 
c) non-confidential in nature. 
2. If a party declines to comply with the commercial court’s order to provide the 
other party with the requested documents in accordance with paragraph (1) 
of this Article, the court may deem his decline a presumption. 
3. The court, at the request of any of the parties, may: 
a) order the joinder of another party to provide a case-related document in 
his possession; and 
b) order  any  government  agency  to  provide  case-related  information  or 
documents in its possession, without prejudice to relevant laws. 
Article 47 
Any concerned party may file a petition with the commercial court to recover a 
document he claims belongs to him or to prove that the purpose of such 
document ceases to exist. The court shall order recovery of said document in 
accordance with Part 7 of this Law. 
Chapter 4: Testimony 
Article 48 
1. The commercial court shall assess the testimony given by witnesses based 
on  their  integrity,  behavior,  and  conduct,  as  well  as  other  case 
circumstances, without the need to attest witnesses. 
2. If a testimony does not correspond to the facts of the case, or if the witnesses’ 
  14 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Courts 
 
 
 
testimonies do not match with one another, the court may only accept the 
parts it deems to be true.  
Article 49 
1. Testimony may be provided by the parties in writing. 
2. A witness shall, prior to giving his testimony, disclose any relationship with 
the parties to the case that may affect his testimony or any interest therein. 
Article 50 
1. The commercial court may, on its own motion, direct to the witness questions 
it deems conducive to revealing the truth.  
2. The litigant may directly question a witness in accordance with rules set by 
the Regulations. 
Article 51  
The Regulations shall determine the provisions relating to the use of modern 
methods for hearing testimonies and the process for notarizing them prior to 
filing the case. 
Chapter 5: Oath 
Article 52 
1. A party may request that the other party take an oath. The commercial court 
may deny the party’s request if it decides that there are no grounds therefor, 
or if evidence submitted by the requested party is sufficient to support his 
defense. 
2. The court may, on its own motion, order any of the parties to take an oath. 
3. The Regulations shall determine the provisions of requesting and of taking 
an oath. 
Article 53 
If the commercial court rules on the case based on the refusal of any of the 
parties to take an oath upon request, such party shall not be permitted to take 
an oath thereafter.  
Chapter 6: Cross-examination 
Article 54 
Any party may directly examine the other party in accordance with rules and 
procedures set by the Regulations.  
  15 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Courts 
 
 
 
Chapter 7: Electronic Evidence 
Article 55 
1. Electronic evidence may be deemed acceptable proof to substantiate facts, 
and  the  Regulations  shall  determine  the  methods  for  verification  and 
submission thereof. 
2. Electronic evidence shall include: 
a) electronic documents; 
b) electronic media; 
c) means of communication; 
d) e-mails; 
e) electronic records; and 
f)  any electronic evidence to be determined by the Regulations. 
Chapter 8: Expert Witness 
Article 56 
The Minister shall, in coordination with the Council, issue rules relating to the 
testimonies of expert witnesses before the commercial court, provided they 
include the following: 
1. Procedures for selecting and engaging expert witnesses. 
2. Assessment of fees and expenses of expert witnesses. 
3. Duties and scope of work of expert witnesses. 
4. Monitoring of the work of expert witnesses. 
5. Procedures for the court’s expert witness departments. 
Chapter 9: Commercial Custom 
Article 57 
Absent a specific provision and where there is no agreement between the 
parties, commercial custom or common practice between the parties may 
apply. The party arguing a custom or practice shall bear the burden of proving 
its existence. 
  16 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Courts 
 
 
 
Part 8: Issuance of Judgments 
Article 58 
1. The commercial court may declare the closing of arguments in the case if 
the parties have provided their closing arguments or have been granted the 
opportunity to complete their claims and defenses in accordance with this 
Law and if the case is ripe for judgment. No further arguments shall be 
allowed, unless a reasoned decision is issued and entered into the hearing 
record.  
2. The court may, upon closing of arguments in the case, permit the parties to 
submit  supplementary  memoranda  to  complete  or  elaborate  on  earlier 
submissions. 
Article 59 
1. Deliberations of judgments among judges shall be in confidence. If the 
commercial court decides to hear the claim and the defense verbally, the 
judges who attended the hearing must take part in the deliberations. 
2. Judgments shall be issued by majority opinion and shall be deemed issued 
by the circuit; dissenting opinions shall be provided with justification.  
Article 60 
1. The commercial court shall, upon pronouncing the judgment, deposit in the 
case file a draft of the judgment pronouncement and reasoning signed by 
the  judges.  However,  the  court  may  pronounce  the  judgment  without 
depositing such draft in the case file, as determined by the Regulations. 
2. If the court decides to defer the pronouncement of the judgment, it shall 
declare its decision at the hearing and enter the reason therefor into the 
hearing record, and shall set another date to pronounce the judgment. In all 
cases, pronouncement of the judgment may not be deferred more than once. 
Article 61 
Subject to Article 59 of this Law, a judgment shall be pronounced in an open 
hearing and must be attended by the judges who took part in the deliberations. 
The absence of a judge who has signed the draft judgment shall not preclude 
the commercial court from pronouncing the judgment. 
A date to deliver a copy of the judgment shall be set after the judgment is 
pronounced, provided such date does not exceed 20 days from the date of 
pronouncement. 
Article 62 
1. A copy of the judgment shall indicate: 
a) the issuing commercial court and circuit, date of issuance, and judges who 
took part in the judgment; 
b) names and capacities of the parties; 
  17 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Courts 
 
 
 
c) a summary of the facts of the case and claims and primary defenses of 
the parties; and 
d) judgment reasoning and pronouncement. 
2. The original copy of the judgment shall be signed by the head of the circuit, 
the judges who took part in the judgment, and the clerk, and shall be 
deposited in the case file prior to the date set for the delivery of a copy 
thereof. 
3. The Regulations shall determine the decisions and orders that require only 
entering the results of the deliberations into the case record. 
Article 63 
A non-enforceable copy of the judgment shall be signed by the officer in charge, 
sealed with the commercial court’s seal, and delivered to any concerned party 
that requests such copy, in accordance with the Regulations. 
Article 64 
An enforceable copy of the judgment shall be appended by the enforcement 
statement, signed by the court officer in charge, sealed with the commercial 
court’s seal, and delivered only to the party seeking to enforce the judgment.  
The  court  may,  in  the  cases  requiring  expeditious  execution,  order  the 
enforcement of a judgment by virtue of its draft. 
Article 65 
1. The commercial court’s judgments or orders shall be subject to expeditious 
execution in the following cases: 
a) If the judgment or order is issued in an urgent case. 
b) Debt satisfaction orders according to the provisions of this Law. 
2. The court may, upon the request of the party in whose favor the judgment is 
rendered, decide to expeditiously enforce the judgment in the following 
cases: 
a) If delayed enforcement would result in grave damage. 
b) If the judgment is based on admission of the claimed right or based on an 
ordinary paper not disputed by the person against whom the judgment is 
rendered. 
Article 66 
The commercial court rendering the final judgment shall consider petitions for 
correction or interpretation of judgments or orders. 
  18 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Courts 
 
 
 
Part 9: Debt Satisfaction Orders 
Article 67 
Notwithstanding the general rules of filing cases, a creditor may file with the 
commercial court a petition to issue a debt satisfaction order if the debt is: 
1. established in writing; 
2. due; or 
3. a fixed amount of money, a specified movable in type and amount, or 
unequivocally defined. 
Article 68 
A creditor shall serve the debtor a written notice to satisfy the debt at least five 
days  prior  to  filing  a  petition  with  the  commercial  court  to  issue  a  debt 
satisfaction order. The notice shall include the date on which the creditor 
intends to file the petition. 
Article 69 
A petition for a debt satisfaction order shall include: 
1. facts and grounds thereof and the debtor’s full name and address; 
2. proof of delivery of a notice for satisfaction of debt; and 
3. any other information determined by the Regulations. 
Article 70 
The circuit shall decide on the petition by an order issued within 10 days from 
the petition filing date. The order shall indicate the debt, be it an amount of 
money or a movable. If the circuit denies the petition, its decision shall be 
deemed final, without prejudice to the creditor's right to file a case in accordance 
with applicable rules. 
Article 71 
1. A debtor may, in accordance with the applicable procedures for filing a case, 
appeal the debt satisfaction order before the competent court within 15 days 
from the date of notification, provided such appeal is reasoned. The appellant 
shall be deemed a claimant, and the rules and procedures for considering a 
case shall apply to considering an appeal. 
2. The  commercial  court  may,  pursuant  to  a  reasoned  decision,  stay  the 
expeditious enforcement of the debt satisfaction order if petitioned and if 
enforcement of the judgment may result in grave damage. 
  19 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Courts 
 
 
 
Part 10: Appeals 
Chapter 1: General Provisions 
Article 72 
Absent a specific provision, the procedures applied in circuits of first instance 
shall apply to appellate circuits and the commercial circuit at the Supreme 
Court; this shall include the provisions related to: 
1. procedures governing appearance of parties; 
2. procedures for case preparation; and 
3. procedures for rendering judgments. 
Article 73 
The Regulations shall determine the appeals to be filed by a lawyer. 
Article 74 
1. Unless  this  Law  stipulates  otherwise,  only  the  party  against  whom  a 
judgment is rendered or whose petitions are not fully granted may appeal the 
judgment. 
2. The parties may agree, even prior to filing a case, that the judgment issued 
by the circuit of first instance be final. 
3. Appeals to judgments which are issued prior to deciding on the case and 
which do not fully or partially end the dispute shall be filed in conjunction with 
the appeal to judgment on the merits.  
However, a party may, prior to the issuance of a judgment on the merit, appeal 
against judgments staying the case and against judgments relating to lack of 
jurisdiction,  case hearing,  and  invocation  of arbitration  clause,  as  well  as 
provisional and summary rulings. 
4. Appeals against judgments to which expeditious enforcement applies shall 
not result in a stay of execution. 
5. The appellant shall not be harmed by his appeal. 
Article 75 
In cases of appeal, notices shall be served to the address registered in the case 
file. 
Article 76 
1. A copy of the judgment rendered on an appeal shall, in addition to the basic 
information stipulated in Article 62 of this Law, include: 
a) a  summary  of  the  appeal  which  includes:  petitions  of  the  appellant, 
pronouncement of the judgment, grounds of the appeal, and claims in the 
original case; and 
  20 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Courts 
 
 
 
b) a response to the primary defenses in the appeal, unless such response 
is already included in the appealed judgment.  
2. The facts and reasoning of the appealed judgment may be cited if they are 
sufficient for citation. 
Article 77 
Final judgments, which have acquired res judicata, shall have the authority to 
end the dispute; such judgment shall have such authority only if the dispute 
involves the same parties with the same capacity and relates to the same 
subject matter. The commercial court shall cite this authority on its own motion.  
Chapter 2: Appeal 
Article 78 
1. Absent a specific provision, all judgments and decisions issued by the 
circuits of first instance at the commercial court shall be appealable, except 
for judgments in cases which do not exceed 50,000 riyals, as determined by 
the Council. 
2. The  Council  shall  determine  the  judgments  the  appeals  of  which  are 
reviewed without hearings.  
3. If the judgment reviewed without a hearing, as specified in paragraph (2) of 
this Article, is consistent with its reasoning, the court shall affirm such 
judgment and may add additional reasoning; however, if the court revokes 
such judgment, it shall rule on the revoked part after conducting a hearing 
thereon. In all cases, the court shall not uphold a judgment or render a 
judgment after the revocation, except in an open hearing of which the parties 
are notified. 
Article 79 
1. Judgments may be appealed within 30 days from the date specified for 
delivery of the copy of the judgment. 
2. Judgments on lack of jurisdiction and judgments in urgent cases may be 
appealed within 10 days from the date specified for delivery of the copy of 
the judgment.  
3. The relevant department shall refer the appeal stipulated in paragraph (2) of 
this Article on the day following the date of filing to the appellate circuit which 
shall decide thereon within five working days from the date of receipt. 
4. A final judgment rendered on the territorial or subject-matter jurisdiction of 
the commercial court may not be appealed.  
Article 80 
The appellate circuit of the commercial court composed of a single judge shall 
have the jurisdiction to consider: 
1. appeals  to  judgments  and decisions issued by  circuits  of  first  instance 
  21 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Courts 
 
 
 
composed of a single judge relating to urgent cases and petitions; 
2. appeals to debt satisfaction orders issued under this Law; 
3. appeals to judgments of case termination or abandonment; and 
4. other appeals determined by the Council. 
Article 81 
1. An appeal shall be filed by means of a memorandum deposited by the 
appellant  or  his  representative  with  the  relevant  department.  Said 
memorandum shall include particulars of the appealed judgment, grounds 
for appeal, claims of the appellant, and any other information determined by 
the Regulations. 
2. The relevant department shall register the petition for appeal; set, as the 
case may be, a date for its hearing immediately after filing; refer it to the 
appellate circuit along with the case file; and notify the appellee of the 
memorandum of the appeal. 
Article 82 
1. An appeal shall restore the case to the status it had prior to the issuance of 
the judgment in relation to the appealed parts thereof. The commercial court 
shall review the appeal on the basis of the submissions made to the circuit 
of first instance that rendered the judgment and any pleadings and defenses 
the court accepts.  
2. Subject to paragraph (1) of this Article, a judgment ending the dispute may 
be appealed along with all previous rulings issued in the same case. 
3. New demands may not be accepted in the appeal, and the court of appeals 
shall have the jurisdiction not to accept such demands; however, additional 
damages, profits, or payments which became due after the final demands 
were submitted may be added to the original petition. 
Article 83 
An appellee may, prior to closing of arguments, file a counter appeal which shall 
be linked to the original appeal, in accordance with the applicable procedures 
or by a memorandum that includes grounds for his appeal. 
Article 84 
If an appellant fails to appear at the scheduled hearing, the commercial court 
may: 
1. rule on the appeal if the case is ripe for judgment or if the appellee so 
requests; and 
2. adjourn the hearing for a period not exceeding 30 days. If the appellant fails 
to appear again, it shall, on its own motion, rule on the appeal as null and 
void. 
Article 85 
1. An appellate circuit shall, in case of revoking the judgment in the original 
petition, refer the case back to the circuit of first instance to decide on 
  22 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Courts 
 
 
 
alternative demands. 
2. If an appellate circuit revokes a judgment relating to lack of jurisdiction, 
inadmissibility to review a case, non-hearing of a case due to the lapse of 
the statutory period, dismissal of a case in form, or admission of a partial 
defense ending court proceedings, it shall refer the case back to the issuing 
circuit to rule on the subject matter. 
Chapter 3: Motion for Reconsideration 
Article 86 
A motion for reconsideration of final judgments, rendered pursuant to this Law, 
may be filed in the cases provided for in the Law of Civil Procedure. 
Article 87 
A motion for reconsideration shall be made by means of a memorandum filed 
by the petitioner or his representative with the commercial court that rendered 
the final judgment, in accordance with applicable case-filing procedures. Such 
memorandum  shall  contain  the  particulars  of  the  judgment  sought  to  be 
reconsidered, a summary thereof, and the grounds for said motion. 
Chapter 4: Cassation 
Article 88 
The commercial circuit at the Supreme Court shall have jurisdiction to review 
appeals to judgments and decisions made by appellate circuits if the subject of 
the appeal is: 
1. a violation, misapplication, or misinterpretation of the provisions of Sharia or 
law, or a breach of any of the Supreme Court judicial principles; 
2. a judgment rendered by an incompetent court, or by a court not properly 
formed in accordance with the law; 
3. a fault in characterizing or describing a case; and 
4. a rendered judgment that ended a dispute in contrary to a previous judgment 
involving the same parties. 
Article 89 
An appeal before the Supreme Court shall not result in a stay of execution. The 
Supreme Court may, however, order a stay of execution if requested in the 
memorandum of appeal and if it deems the execution of said judgment would 
result in irreparable harm.  
  23 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Courts 
 
 
 
Article 90 
A circuit judge shall review the appeal, prepare a brief report indicating the 
grounds for the appeal and responses thereto, and submit the same to the 
circuit. If the circuit decides that the appeal is inadmissible or unacceptable due 
to the lapse of the period set for appeal, or to the fact that it was based on 
grounds other than those stipulated in this Law, it shall dismiss such appeal 
pursuant to a reasoned decision to be entered in the hearing record. 
If the circuit determines that the appeal has merit, it shall set a hearing for 
considering it; in such case, the circuit may order the parties to exchange 
memoranda. 
Article 91 
The circuit may, if necessary, hold a hearing session where the parties can 
present their defenses orally. The parties may not provide reasons other than 
those stated in the appeal papers, unless such reasons pertain to public policy. 
The circuit may, as an exception, permit the parties to submit complementary 
memoranda if it is necessary for deciding the appeal, and shall set a date for 
the submission thereof.  
Article 92 
If a circuit revokes an appealed judgment on grounds of lack of jurisdiction, it 
shall decide on the jurisdiction, and shall, if necessary, refer the case to the 
competent court.  
If the circuit revokes the judgment for other reasons, it shall refer the case to 
the court that issued the appealed judgment to rule anew thereon by a different 
judge. In such case, the court to which the case is referred shall follow the same 
principle set by the Supreme Court in deciding such case. 
If the court, however, decides to revoke the appealed judgment and the case is 
ripe for judgment, it shall issue a ruling thereon. 
Part 11: Final Provisions 
Article 93 
Where this Law is silent, the Law of Civil Procedure shall apply to cases falling 
under the jurisdiction of the commercial court, taking into account the nature of 
commercial cases. 
Article 94 
1. The Council shall issue rules for appointing judges to commercial courts. 
2. The relevant department at the Ministry shall publish commercial judgments 
upon becoming final, and may outsource the same to the private sector 
pursuant to a decision by the Minister. 
  24 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Courts 
 
 
 
3. A unit for commercial judiciary studies shall be established at the Ministry to 
be composed of a number of judges, specialists, and researchers. Such unit 
shall conduct studies and research on commercial judiciary, follow up on the 
requirements to enforce this Law and its Regulations, and provide opinion 
on issues and matters referred thereto. 
Article 95 
The Minister shall, in coordination with the Council, issue the Regulations and 
the decisions necessary for the implementation of this Law. The Regulations 
and the decisions shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall enter into 
force thereafter. 
Article 96 
This Law shall enter into force 60 days following its publication in the Official 
Gazette, and shall repeal any provisions conflicting therewith. 
  25 

NEW PAGE
Law of Criminal Procedure
1435 H
Law of Criminal Procedure
Article 1
In these Implementing Regulations, the following terms shall have the meanings assigned thereto, unless the context requires otherwise:  Law: The Law of Criminal Procedure.  Regulations: The Implementing Regulations of the Law. Council: The Supreme Judicial Council. Ministry: The Ministry of Justice. Bureau: The Bureau of Investigation and Public Prosecution. Serious Crimes: Crimes mandating detention pursuant to Article 112 of the Law.  


Law of Commercial Pledge 
 
Royal Decree No. M/86 
April 24, 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Translation of Saudi Laws 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Pledge 
 
 
 
NOTE: 
The translation of Saudi laws takes the following into consideration: 
•  Words used in the singular form include the plural and vice versa.  
•  Words used in the masculine form include the feminine.  
•  Words used in the present tense include the present as well as the future.  
•  The word “person” or “persons” and their related pronouns (he, his, him, they, 
their, them) refer to a natural and legal person.  
 
   
  2 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Pledge 
 
 
 
Law of Commercial Pledge 
Chapter 1: General Provisions 
Article 1      
In this Law, the following terms and phrases shall have the meanings assigned 
thereto, unless the context requires otherwise:  
Law: Law of Commercial Pledge.   
Minister: Minister of Commerce.   
Regulations: Implementing Regulations of the Law.   
Pledge Contract: An agreement whereby the debtor or his guarantor allocates 
movable property to secure a debt,  including any amendment or addition 
thereto.   
Movable Property: Current or future movable property, or a future right.   
Future Property: Potential assets or existing assets, of which the pledger’s 
ownership is not complete at the time the pledge contract is concluded, such 
as assets contracted to be constructed, movable assets under construction, or 
assets not deemed movable at the time the pledge contract is concluded.   
Future Right: A debt a person undertakes to pay to the pledger within a specific 
period of time, or an uncollected payable debt, including third-party conditional 
debts or potential debts owed to the pledger.   
Pledged Property: A movable property offered or agreed to be offered to 
secure a debt. 
Debt or Secured Debt: A debt, or part thereof, guaranteed by a pledged 
property,  including  current  or  future  liabilities,  whether  established  or 
conditional, or monetary or non-monetary.   
Debtor: A person obligated to satisfy a secured debt.  
Pledger: A provider of a pledge, whether the debtor or his guarantor in rem. 
Pledgee: A person for whose benefit a pledge is made.   
Escrow Agent: A person agreed upon by the pledger and pledgee to hold, 
preserve, invest, or develop the pledged property, or collect its revenues.   
Possessor: A person in possession of a pledged property, whether the pledger, 
pledgee, or escrow agent.    
Economic Entity: An entity practicing a commercial or professional activity or 
any other activity intended for profit.   
Article 2   
1. The provisions of this Law shall apply to a written pledge contract relating to 
a movable property pledged as security for a debt.   
  3 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Pledge 
 
 
 
2. A pledge contract shall be deemed written if it includes the following:    
a) Names, addresses, contact information of the pledger, pledgee, debtor (in 
cases where the pledger is a guarantor in rem), escrow agent (if any), and 
the possessor. 
b) Description of the pledged property.    
c) A general description of the secured debt, its amount or maximum value, 
as applicable.   
d) Date of the pledge contract.    
e) Maturity date of the secured debt, or anticipated maturity date of a debtor’s 
non-established debt.   
Chapter 2: Secured Debt 
Article 3   
A pledge may be made to secure a debt not yet established on the debtor, 
including conditional or potential debts. Said pledge shall be effective from the 
date of the pledge contract and not from the date of the debt establishment. 
Chapter 3: Effect of Pledge Contract 
Article 4  
The  pledge  shall  be  deemed  effective  against  a  third  party  by  means of 
publication or transfer of pledged property possession to the pledgee or escrow 
agent, in accordance with the Movable Property Security Law.   
Article 5   
An escrow agent may not be changed unless agreed upon by the pledger and 
the pledgee; in such case, the escrow agent may claim damages arising from 
such change.    
Article 6   
A pledge contract that is not effective against a third party shall remain valid 
and effective between the pledger and the pledgee.   
Chapter 4: Pledged Property 
Article 7   
Pledged property shall secure, in addition to the principal of the secured debt, 
the following related expenses:   
  4 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Pledge 
 
 
 
1. Maintenance expenses.   
2. Investment expenses.   
3. Revenue collection expenses.   
4. Enforcement expenses.   
Article 8   
1. A  pledger  must  be  the  owner  of  the  pledged  property  at  the  time  of 
concluding  the  contract  and  must  have  the  capacity  to  dispose  of  it. 
Otherwise, a bona fide pledgee shall have the right to demand pledging an 
alternative property under a new contract or the immediate payment of debt. 
2. A property that is pledgeable is a property that is salable or the value of which 
is assessable.    
3. Notwithstanding Articles 9 and 35 of this Law, no pledge may be created 
over a property or shares in an inheritance or a bequest not yet owned by 
the pledger.   
Article 9  
Notwithstanding Article 8(1) of this Law, future property may be offered by 
agreement as a pledged property, provided that said future property is likely to 
exist. In such case, the pledge shall be valid from the date of agreement and 
not from the date the future property comes into existence, nor the date it is 
owned by the pledger, or the date of its transformation into a movable property.
   
Article 10   
1. The whole pledged property shall be taken to be security for the entire debt, 
unless agreed otherwise.   
2. A part of a movable property may be pledged, even if said property is 
indivisible or inseparable; in such case, the pledge shall take effect on the 
pledged part of the common property. The Regulations shall, in coordination 
with the Ministry of Justice, set the provisions governing the transfer of 
possession and enforcement of a pledged property that is part of a common 
property.   
Article 11   
Repealed   
Article 12   
Multiple movable properties may be pledged to secure the same debt; in such 
case, the pledgee may determine the order of enforcement on said properties, 
unless agreed otherwise.   
  5 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Pledge 
 
 
 
Chapter 5: Preserving and Investing Pledged Property 
Article 13   
Repealed   
Article 14  
1. A pledgee or escrow agent, as applicable, may, by virtue of an authorization 
by the pledger established in the pledge contract, invest, manage, and 
develop the pledged property and collect its revenues for the benefit of the 
pledger.   
2. A possessor, other than the pledger, may, by agreement with the pledger, 
deduct the expenses referred to in Article 7 of this Law from the revenues of 
the pledged property.   
Article 15    
A pledgee or escrow agent may not use the pledged property for their benefit 
without the written consent of the pledger, provided the fee for such use is 
based on market price.   
Chapter 6: Disposition and Transfer of Pledged Property 
Article 16  
Repealed   
Article 17  
Repealed   
Article 18  
Repealed   
Article 19   
A pledgee with the right to track a pledged property shall be entitled to carry out 
enforcement  on  such  property  even  if  the  property  is  transferred  to  the 
ownership of a bona fide third party who is unaware of the pledge. In such case, 
the third party may recover the value of the property from the pledger or the 
  6 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Pledge 
 
 
 
seller, without prejudice to his right to claim compensation, unless he waives 
such right in writing.   
Article 20   
A pledged property is transferable through inheritance or bequest, encumbered 
with the pledge.   
Article 21   
A person to whom a pledged property is transferred may eliminate the pledge 
by settling the debt and any costs or expenses incurred by the pledgee; in such 
case, he may recover from the pledger an amount not exceeding the total sum 
that would have been paid to the pledgee, unless agreed otherwise.  
Chapter 7: Loss of Pledged Property 
Article 22   
1. A possessor shall be responsible for safekeeping the pledged property until 
the pledge expires or enforcement on the pledged property is carried out. A 
pledger or a pledgee, as applicable, may petition the competent court to 
compel the possessor to take necessary measures to preserve, protect, 
maintain, and repair the pledged property.    
2. A pledger or a pledgee, as applicable, may file an objection before the 
competent court against any action taken by the possessor that may cause 
the property to depreciate or sustain loss or damage, and the court shall 
immediately consider such objection.   
3. Subject to Article 24(1) of this Law, the possessor shall guarantee the value 
of the pledged property if it is lost due to his transgression or negligence. 
   
Article 23  
Repealed   
Article 24  
1. If a pledged property is lost due to the pledger’s transgression or negligence, 
the secured debt shall become due and the pledgee shall have the right to 
carry out enforcement on the remainder of the pledged property, unless said 
property is replaced. 
2. Subject to paragraph 1 of this Article, if the loss of a pledged property results 
in indemnification, the pledge shall transfer to the indemnification, unless the 
pledger and the pledgee agree otherwise. The provisions of the original 
pledge contract shall apply, unless the pledger and the pledgee agree 
otherwise.   
  7 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Pledge 
 
 
 
Article 25   
1. The competent court may, pursuant to a petition by the pledger or pledgee, 
order the sale of a pledged property even prior to the maturity date of the 
secured debt if such property is susceptible to loss or depreciation or the 
anticipated repair cost exceeds half of its value at the time of making the 
pledge or the cost of its possession and safekeeping is high.   
2. The competent court may, pursuant to a petition by the pledger, permit the 
sale of a pledged property if an opportunity arises to sell the same at a price 
higher than its value at the time of making the pledge.   
3. The sale of a pledged property shall be carried out in the manner determined 
by the competent court.   
Chapter 8: Sale and Enforcement 
Article 26    
Subject to the enforcement provisions provided for in the Movable Property 
Security  Law,  the  Regulations  may  determine  enforcement  provisions 
pertaining to pledged properties.  
Article 27  
Repealed   
Article 28    
Repealed   
Article 29   
1. A register-generated enforcement document of a registered pledge contract 
shall be deemed an enforcement document. In the case of multiple pledgees 
holding  registered  contracts  for  the  same  pledged  property,  a  register-
generated enforcement document may only be issued to an enforcement 
agent. The issuance of a register-generated enforcement document shall be 
noted in the Register.   
2. The enforcement judge shall carry out enforcement on a pledged property in 
accordance with the provisions of the Enforcement Law and its Implementing 
Regulations.   
Article 29    
Repealed   
Article 30  
Repealed   
  8 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Pledge 
 
 
 
Article 31   
Repealed   
Article 32    
Repealed   
Chapter 9: Pledging Certain Properties 
Article 33   
Subject to Article 34 of this Law, an economic entity may be pledged. Unless 
otherwise agreed under the pledge contract, the pledge of an economic entity 
shall include:    
1. all intangible properties of the economic entity which are transferable to third 
parties either separately or as part of the economic entity; and    
2. rights and movable assets of the economic entity.   
Article 34   
If the economic entity is a company, the pledge contract shall only include its 
movable  assets,  whether  tangible  or  intangible,  as  well  as  its  rights  and 
commercial business.    
Article 35  
Repealed   
Article 36  
1. A financial institution may deduct the liabilities payable prior to pledging the 
account upon the maturity thereof.   
2. A pledger may not withdraw or transfer funds from the pledged account, 
unless agreed otherwise, nor may he withdraw or transfer funds from an 
account created in the name of the Register in the cases provided for by the 
Law.   
Article 37  
Repealed   
Article 38   
1. A pledger may pledge all his movable property or part or category thereof or 
any movable property that is generally described and specifically identifiable.
   
2. Enforcement on a pledged property according to paragraph (1) of this Article 
shall be carried out upon establishing the debtor’s default. All pledger's 
  9 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Pledge 
 
 
 
properties which are specified in the pledge contract and which the pledger 
owns and possesses on the maturity date shall be included in the pledge.
   
3. A pledger may dispose of a pledged property in accordance with paragraph 
(1) of this Article, or invest the same in his regular economic activities, unless 
an infringement invoking enforcement occurs.   
Article 39   
Vessels, aircraft, commercial papers, securities traded in the Capital Market, 
unlisted companies shares, goods stored in public depots, trademarks, and 
similar properties, shall be pledged in accordance with the provisions of their 
respective laws, and where such laws are silent, the provisions of this Law shall 
apply.   
Chapter 10: Pledge Expiry 
Article 40   
1. A pledge shall expire in the following cases:  
a) Expiration  of  the  secured  debt  in-full,  by  means  of  settlement, 
acquaintance, or any other means of settling debts.   
b) Loss of the pledged property, unless the pledger and the pledgee agree 
on replacing the lost property, without prejudice to Article 24(2) of this Law. 
c) Agreement  of  the  pledger  and  the  pledgee  to  terminate  the  pledge 
contract.    
d) Relinquishment of the pledge by the pledgee.   
2. A pledge shall not expire by rescheduling or renewing the secured debt.  
Article 41   
A pledgee may, under an effective pledge contract, transfer to a third party his 
right to recover the secured debt along with the pledged collateral.   
Chapter 11: Final Provisions 
Article 42  
Repealed   
Article 43   
The value of a pledged property and its average assessed value shall, in cases 
provided for in this Law, be determined in accordance with the rules and 
procedures set in the Regulations, unless the agency in charge of regulating 
specific types of property has its own procedures.    
  10 

NEW PAGE

Law of Commercial Pledge 
 
 
 
Article 44   
Repealed   
Article 45   
The Minister shall issue  the Regulations within 60 days from the date of 
publication of this Law in the Official Gazette.   
Article 46   
This Law shall supersede the Commercial Pledge Law, issued by Royal Decree 
No. (M/75), dated 21/11/1424H, and shall repeal any provisions conflicting 
therewith.   
Article 47   
This Law shall enter into force from the date of its publication in the Official 
Gazette. 
  11 

NEW PAGE
Law of Nuclear and Radiation Control 
 
Royal Decree No. M/82 
April 11, 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Translation of Saudi Laws 

NEW PAGE

Law of Nuclear and Radiation Control 
 
 
 
NOTE: 
The translation of Saudi laws takes the following into consideration: 
•  Words used in the singular form include the plural and vice versa.  
•  Words used in the masculine form include the feminine.  
•  Words used in the present tense include the present as well as the future.  
•  The word “person” or “persons” and their related pronouns (he, his, him, they, 
their, them) refer to a natural and legal person.  
 
   
  2 

NEW PAGE

Law of Nuclear and Radiation Control 
 
 
 
Law of Nuclear and Radiation Control 
Chapter 1: Definitions 
Article 1 
The  following  terms  and  phrases—used  herein—shall  have  the  meanings 
assigned thereto unless the context requires otherwise: 
Kingdom: Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. 
Law: Law of Nuclear and Radiation Control. 
Implementing Regulations: Implementing Regulations of the Law. 
Authority: Nuclear and Radiation Control Authority. 
Authority Laws: The Law, Implementing Regulations, Authority Statute, and 
other regulations and decisions issued by the Authority in implementation of the 
provisions of the Law. 
IAEA: The International Atomic Energy Agency. 
Nuclear Materials: Plutonium, uranium-233, or uranium enriched in the two 
isotopes (uranium-233 or uranium-235), uranium containing an admixture of 
naturally occurring isotopes, but which is not ore or ore residue, or any other 
material  the  Authority  classifies  as  nuclear  material.  For  purposes  of  the 
application of nuclear safeguards, nuclear materials shall mean any source 
material  or  fissionable  material  as  defined  in  the  relevant  Safeguards 
Agreement. 
Radioactive Material: Any material from which ionizing radiation is emitted, 
whether spontaneously or within other equipment, and which is designated as 
subject to the control of the Authority, including naturally occurring radioactive 
materials. 
Safety: Protecting human beings and the environment from radiation hazards, 
as well as ensuring the safety of the facilities and activities from which such 
hazards may arise. 
Security:  Prevention  and  detection  of  any  theft,  sabotage,  unauthorized 
access, illegal transfer (or any other criminal act) involving nuclear, nuclear-
related or radioactive materials and associated facilities. 
Activity: The production, use, possession, storage, transport, import, or export 
of radioactive, nuclear or nuclear-related materials; the siting, construction, 
commissioning, operation or decommissioning of facilities; radioactive waste 
management and site rehabilitation; or any other act specified by the Authority 
in accordance with its laws. 
Clearance: The removal of radioactive material or radiation source subject to 
the Law from the control imposed thereon by the Authority on the grounds that 
the radiation exposure resulting therefrom is too small to warrant the application 
of such control. 
  3 

NEW PAGE

Law of Nuclear and Radiation Control 
 
 
 
Decommissioning: The processes of dismantling and decontamination and 
the measures taken to release a facility, other than a disposal facility, from the 
control of the Authority. 
Disposal: The emplacement of spent fuel or radioactive waste on a permanent 
or long-term basis in a facility satisfying the requirements. 
Exclusion: Deliberate exclusion of a particular category of radiation exposure 
from the scope of this Law, on grounds that it is not subject to the control of the 
Authority.  
Exemption: The Authority’s decision that a radiation source or certain practice 
need not be subject to its partial or full control on the basis that the exposure to 
radiation resulting from such source or practice is too low to warrant application 
of  such  control,  or  that  this  is  the  optimum  option  available  after  taking 
necessary  preventive  measures  for  minimizing  the  risks  of  exposure  to 
radiation. 
Import/Export:  Transferring  any  nuclear,  nuclear-related,  or  radioactive 
material into or out of the Kingdom. 
Radiation  Exposure:  Any  act  or  condition  causing  exposure  to  ionizing 
radiation.  
Ionizing  Radiation:  Radiation  capable  of  creating  ion  pairs  in  biological 
materials. 
License: A legal document issued by the Authority granting authorization to 
perform a specific activity or practice. 
Licensee: Any person holding a valid license. 
Person: Any natural or corporate person. 
Nuclear Facility:  Any facility where activities or practices utilizing nuclear 
materials are conducted, including a nuclear power plant, research reactor, 
nuclear material fabrication facility, spent fuel storage facility, enrichment plant, 
reprocessing facility, or any other facility as defined in the nuclear Safeguards 
Agreement, as well as any similar facility designated by the Authority. 
Facility: This shall include a nuclear facility; installation where a radiation 
source is used; mining and raw materials processing facilities, such as uranium 
mines; radioactive waste management facilities; and any other locations where 
radioactive  materials  are  produced,  processed,  used,  handled,  stored  or 
disposed of to the extent warranted by safety and security. 
Nuclear or Radiological Emergency: Any emergency which results or is likely 
to result in exposure to ionizing radiation. 
Nuclear-Related  Items:  Any  nuclear  or  radiological-related  substance, 
commodity, technology, software or data, as well as nuclear and non-nuclear 
dual-use materials that are subject, when used, to specific restrictions as they 
are susceptible to be misused.  
Incident: Any unplanned event, including operation errors or equipment failure; 
pre-accident situations; pre-accident warnings; near-miss incidents; harmful or 
non-harmful unauthorized acts, the actual or potential consequences of which 
  4 

NEW PAGE

Law of Nuclear and Radiation Control 
 
 
 
cannot be ignored in terms of protection or safety. 
Practice: Any human activity that causes or is likely to cause exposure to 
radiation, excluding procedures of medical diagnosis or treatment of patients 
by healthcare practitioners. 
Radioactive Waste: Any material, regardless of its physical form, resulting 
from activities, practices or interventions such as decontamination, for which no 
further use is foreseen and which contains or is contaminated with radioactive 
substances, and has radiological activity or concentration higher than the level 
set for clearance from regulatory control. 
Radioactive Source: Any radioactive material permanently sealed in a capsule 
or closely bonded and in a solid form. 
Radiation Source: Any radiation generator, radioactive source, or any other 
radioactive material outside the nuclear fuel cycles of research and power 
reactors. 
Orphan Source: Any radioactive source not under the control of the Authority, 
because it has never been under such control, or has been abandoned, lost, 
withdrawn or stolen, or has been circulated through illicit trafficking.  
Spent Fuel: Nuclear fuel that has been irradiated in and permanently removed 
from a reactor core. 
Nuclear Safeguards: The processes of verification, inspection, monitoring and 
technical assistance conducted by IAEA to ensure that nuclear materials and 
installations, equipment and services related thereto are not converted or used 
for non-peaceful purposes.  
Safeguards Agreement: Agreement between the Kingdom and IAEA for the 
application of nuclear safeguards in connection with the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), approved pursuant to Royal Decree 
No. M/51, dated 11/8/1429H. 
Transport: All operations and conditions associated with the movement of 
nuclear and radioactive material, whether through, from or into the territory of 
the Kingdom. 
Chapter 2: General Provisions 
Article 2 
This Law aims to: 
1. achieve the highest standards of safety, security and safeguards for nuclear 
activities and facilities; 
2. provide adequate protection for humans and the environment from harmful 
effects of ionizing radiation; and 
3. meet commitments of the Kingdom under relevant international treaties and 
agreements.  
  5 

NEW PAGE

Law of Nuclear and Radiation Control 
 
 
 
Article 3 
The provisions of the Law shall apply to: 
1. all activities and facilities that involve peaceful uses of nuclear power and 
ionizing radiation; 
2. any actual or potential exposure to radiation by humans or the environment 
in the Kingdom; and 
3. transport of radioactive materials as well as import and export of nuclear 
materials and nuclear-related items. 
Article 4 
The licensee and persons assisting him shall provide the Authority with any 
document or information required for the performance of its duties. 
Chapter 3: Licenses 
Article 5 
1. No person shall carry out any activity without a license or an exemption from 
the Authority in accordance with its laws.  
2. A person intending to perform any activity shall, prior to commencement, 
inform the Authority of his intention. 
3. A  license  applicant  shall  have  the  means,  capabilities  and  financial 
resources needed to carry out the activity subject of the license, taking into 
consideration fulfillment of the requirements of nuclear safety, security and 
safeguards. 
Article 6 
1. The approval of the Council of Ministers shall be obtained prior to review of 
license applications for nuclear facilities. 
2. The Authority’s Board of Directors shall have the power to issue, renew, 
modify, suspend or revoke a license for nuclear facilities, or approve the sites 
of such facilities.  
3. The Authority shall set a classification of licenses and specify their types 
according to hazards resulting from activities and facilities and shall set 
relevant terms and conditions. 
4. The Authority shall set rules for determining license fees.  
5. The Authority shall approve the decommissioning plan for the facility subject 
of  the  license  and  verify  that  the  applicant  has  the  required  financial 
resources. 
Article 7 
1. The licensee shall be fully liable for the safety, security and safeguards of 
the  nuclear  activity,  even  if  the  license  is  suspended,  revoked  or  not 
renewed, in accordance with Authority laws. 
2. The licensee shall: 
  6 

NEW PAGE

Law of Nuclear and Radiation Control 
 
 
 
a) comply with Authority laws as well as terms and provisions stated in the 
licenses issued according thereto;  
b) employ qualified staff to perform the licensed activity; 
c) provide  necessary  means  and  training  to  prevent  staff  exposure  to 
radiation hazards; and 
d) keep  accounting  and  operational  records  of  nuclear  and  radioactive 
materials and submit periodic reports to the Authority.  
Article 8 
In the event of a nuclear or radiological emergency, incident, loss of control 
over a radiation source or nuclear material, theft or illegal seizure of a nuclear 
or radioactive material, or sabotage or threat of sabotage of a facility, the 
licensee shall: 
1. promptly notify the Authority; 
2. submit a written report on the event to the Authority; and 
3. provide any additional information or assistance required by the Authority. 
Chapter 4: Safety 
Article 9 
Subject to the principles of justification, optimization and dose limitation of 
ionizing radiation, and guided by the international best practices, the Authority 
shall issue the regulations and decisions related to the safety of activities, 
practices and facilities and shall specify the categories of exposure to be 
excluded from the application of the Law or exempted from Authority control. 
Chapter 5: Security  
Article 10 
1. The  Authority  shall  establish  regulations  for  security  of  nuclear  and 
radioactive materials in coordination with the competent security agencies, 
subject to an assessment of nuclear security threat in accordance with 
international best practices.  
2. The licensee shall be in charge of security relating to activities, practices, 
facilities and radiation sources subject of his license. 
3. The competent security agencies shall be in charge of protection of the 
perimeters of nuclear facilities.  
Article 11 
In the event of theft, armed robbery, or illegal seizure of nuclear or radioactive 
materials, or sabotage of a facility, or threat thereof, the Authority shall inform 
the competent security agency as well as the competent authorities in countries 
  7 

NEW PAGE

Law of Nuclear and Radiation Control 
 
 
 
that might be concerned and relevant international organizations, and shall 
agree with them on cooperation arrangements necessary for the protection or 
recovery of such materials in coordination with the relevant agencies in the 
Kingdom. 
Article 12 
It is prohibited for any person to: 
1. disclose any confidential information relating to the physical protection of 
nuclear material; or  
2. communicate, without authorization, any information to a third party, or 
facilitate access thereto, knowing that such information could undermine the 
physical security of any nuclear material or items related thereto, radioactive 
material, or facility. 
Chapter 6: Nuclear Safeguards 
Article 13 
1. The Authority shall adopt an accounting system to manage and monitor the 
inventory of nuclear materials. 
2. The Authority shall set the nuclear safeguards regulations for activities and 
practices. 
3. The Authority shall verify the implementation of the nuclear safeguards 
agreement and any amendment thereto. 
4. The Authority shall, in coordination with the relevant agencies, facilitate entry 
of IAEA inspectors into the Kingdom. 
Article 14 
1. No person may, without a license, export or import nuclear materials or items 
related  thereto,  radioactive  materials,  facility  components  or  any  other 
material determined by the Authority. 
2. The Authority shall, in coordination with the relevant agencies, set conditions 
for the import and export of materials referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 
Chapter 7: Transport 
Article 15 
The Authority shall, in coordination with the relevant agencies, set regulations 
for nuclear safety, security and safeguards during transport of nuclear and 
radioactive materials, in line with international best practices. 
  8 

NEW PAGE

Law of Nuclear and Radiation Control 
 
 
 
Chapter 8: Emergency Preparedness and Response 
Article 16 
1. The  Authority  shall  set  requirements  for  emergency  preparedness  and 
response plans for facilities and activities, which shall constitute part of the 
requirements for obtaining a license or renewal thereof. 
2. The licensee shall set an emergency preparedness and response plan for 
the facility he operates and shall review, update and test said plan on a 
regular basis. The Authority shall approve such plan and any update thereof. 
Article 17 
In the event of a nuclear or radiological emergency, the following measures 
shall be taken: 
1. The licensee shall implement the nuclear or radiological emergency plan 
approved by the Authority.  
2. 2- If the spread of radioactive contamination beyond the boundaries of the 
facility is probable, the national plan for response to nuclear or radiological 
emergency shall be executed. 
3. If the spread of radioactive contamination beyond the boundaries of the 
Kingdom is probable, the Authority shall immediately notify IAEA and provide 
any information or assistance regarding nuclear or radiological emergencies 
that may be required under relevant international agreements.  
Chapter 9: Radioactive Waste and Spent Fuel 
Article 18 
The  Authority  shall,  upon  setting  the  licensing  terms  and  conditions  for 
radioactive waste and spent fuel management facilities, consider the following: 
1. Keeping the generated radioactive waste at the practical minimum level. 
2. The interdependence among the steps of radioactive waste and spent fuel 
management. 
3. Biological,  chemical  and  other  hazards  that  may  be  associated  with 
radioactive waste management. 
4. Adequate protection for the criticality and removal of residual heat generated 
during radioactive waste management. 
5. Measures  that  reasonably  minimize  predictable  impacts  on  future 
generations that might exceed those permitted for the current generation. 
6. Avoiding placing any costly additional burdens on future generations. 
Article 19 
1. The prime responsibility for ensuring the safety and security of radioactive 
waste and spent fuel inside and outside a disposal facility shall rest with the 
licensee. 
  9 

NEW PAGE

Law of Nuclear and Radiation Control 
 
 
 
2. If the licensee fails to undertake the responsibility referred to in paragraph 1 
of this Article, King Abdullah City for Atomic and Renewable Energy shall 
assume  such  responsibility,  without  relieving  the  licensee  from  his 
obligations under Authority laws, including his financial responsibilities. 
3. Any licensee in charge of a disposal facility shall provide assistance to the 
Authority, upon its request, in recovering and storing orphan sources and 
any  other  seized  radiation  source,  in  accordance  with  his  applicable 
procedures. The Regulations shall set relevant procedures.  
Chapter 10: Inspection 
Article 20 
The Authority shall: 
1. set  an  inspection  program  for  activities  and facilities according  to  their 
hazards; 
2. inspect and monitor activities and facilities to verify their compliance with 
Authority laws; 
3. detect violations and take appropriate action; and 
4. conduct investigations, issue notices and take necessary measures in case 
of any violation of Authority laws, subject to the jurisdiction of the public 
prosecution provided for in Article 32 of this Law. 
Article 21 
The Authority shall, in implementation of Article 20 of this Law, have the 
following powers: 
1. Enter any facility, part thereof or annex thereto, or any other place licensed 
to perform activities, in order to conduct periodic or unscheduled inspection; 
examine  the  adequacy  of  the  licensee’s  procedures  for  nuclear  safety, 
security and safeguards; install and use surveillance and monitoring devices; 
survey and collect samples for such purpose; and take necessary measures 
to seize materials, devices and documents that may constitute a breach of 
nuclear safety, security and safeguards. 
2. Obligate  facility  operators  to  take  corrective  measures  to  remedy  the 
violations. 
3. Enter, in coordination with the relevant agencies, places or facilities that 
contain or are suspected to contain nuclear or radioactive materials to carry 
out an inspection, seize their inventory, order a full or partial shutdown 
thereof, install surveillance devices, survey and collect samples, and dispose 
of or seize any radiation source, nuclear material or items related thereto. 
  10 

NEW PAGE

Law of Nuclear and Radiation Control 
 
 
 
Chapter 11: Violations and Penalties 
Article 22 
A person shall be deemed in violation if he: 
1. carries out any activity without obtaining a license from the Authority; 
2. refuses to comply with a decision or directive issued by the Authority or its 
inspectors; 
3. provides the Authority with false statements or misleading information; or 
4. carries out any other act in violation of Authority laws or license terms or 
conditions. 
Article 23 
1. Without prejudice to any harsher penalty provided for in another law, a 
person who commits any of the violations stipulated in Article 22 of this Law 
shall be subject to a fine not exceeding twenty million riyals. 
2. The  fine  referred  to  in  paragraph  1 of  this  Article  shall  be determined 
according to the gravity of the violation. Violations shall be considered by a 
committee of five specialists, from other than Authority personnel, appointed 
pursuant to a decision by the Council of Ministers upon nomination by the 
Authority’s chief executive officer. Said committee shall include at least one 
legal counselor. Committee decisions shall be issued pursuant to rules and 
procedures set by the Regulations and shall be subject to appeal before the 
Administrative Court according to its law. 
Article 24 
Without prejudice to any harsher penalty provided for in another law, a person 
committing any of the following offenses shall be subject to imprisonment for a 
period not exceeding ten years and a fine not exceeding thirty million riyals, or 
either penalty: 
1. Receipt, possession, use, transport, alteration, dispersion, modification or 
disposal of nuclear materials, without a license, which causes (or is likely to 
cause) death or serious injury to any person or substantial damage to 
property or to the environment. 
2. Any  breach  of  Authority  laws  relating  to  nuclear  safety,  security  or 
safeguards resulting in substantial damage or hazard to people or to the 
environment.  
3. Theft, robbery, embezzlement or fraudulent acquisition of nuclear, nuclear-
related, or radioactive materials. 
4. Unlawful transport of nuclear, nuclear-related, or radioactive materials into 
or out of the Kingdom.  
5. Any unlawful act directed against a facility or activity, or an act disrupting 
their  operation,  which  causes  death  or  serious  injury  to  a  person  or 
substantial damage to property or to the environment through exposure to 
radiation or release of radioactive materials. 
6. Any act with the intention to obtain nuclear or radioactive material through 
the use of force or threat thereof, or any other form of intimidation, 
  11 

NEW PAGE

Law of Nuclear and Radiation Control 
 
 
 
7. Threat to: 
a) use nuclear or radioactive materials with the intent to cause death or 
serious bodily injury to any person or substantial damage to property or to 
the environment; 
b) use nuclear material to commit any of the acts set out in paragraph 5 of 
this Article; and 
c) commit any of the acts set out in paragraphs 3 and 5 of this Article, with 
the intent to compel a person, international organization or state to carry 
out an act or refrain therefrom.  
Article 25 
The imprisonment or fine set forth in Article 24 of this Law shall not be less than 
half its maximum if the offense is coupled with any of the following: 
1. The offense is committed through organized crime; 
2. The offender has been previously convicted of similar offenses, including 
foreign convictions. 
Article 26 
Any person who attempts to commit any of the offenses stipulated in this Law 
shall  be  subject  to  a  penalty  not  exceeding  half  the  maximum  penalty 
prescribed for such offense. 
Article 27 
Any person who conspires, through collusion, incitement, or assistance, to 
commit any of the offenses stipulated in this Law shall be subject to the same 
penalty prescribed for the offense. 
Article 28 
The conviction of a corporate person of any of the offenses stipulated in this 
Law shall not relieve a natural person, whether a board member, manager or 
officer working for said corporate person, from responsibility and due penalty 
upon establishment that the offense has been committed with his consent or 
due to his negligence or connivance. 
Article 29 
A corporate person may be punished by permanent or temporary suspension 
of his licensed activity whether directly or indirectly, by permanent or temporary 
closure of his installation which was involved in committing the offense, or by 
liquidation of his business. 
Article 30 
An offender may be exempted from the penalties designated for the offenses 
prescribed  under  this  Law  if  he  provides  the  competent  authorities  with 
information  on  such  offenses  prior  to  their  commission,  provided  such 
information leads to detecting the offense prior to its commission, apprehending 
  12 

NEW PAGE

Law of Nuclear and Radiation Control 
 
 
 
the offenders, or preventing the commission of such offense. If the offender 
informs the competent authorities after the commission of the offense and prior 
to the investigation, he may be exempted from the penalty if such information 
leads to the apprehension of the other offenders or the seizure of the tools used 
in the offense. If such information is provided during the investigation, the 
penalty may be mitigated.  
Article 31 
The  Authority  shall  provide  technical  support  and  assistance  during  pre-
investigation of offenses stipulated in this Law and during investigation and trial, 
if so requested.  
Article 32 
The Public Prosecution shall have the jurisdiction to investigate and prosecute 
offenses stipulated in this Law. 
Chapter 12: Concluding Provisions 
Article 33 
A person against whom a decision has been issued by the Authority may appeal 
in writing against such decision to the Authority’s chief executive officer within 
sixty days from the date of his knowledge thereof. 
Article 34 
The Regulations shall be issued pursuant to a decision by the Authority’s Board 
of Directors within 180 days from the date of publication of this Law and shall 
enter into force on the date this Law becomes effective. 
Article 35 
This Law shall enter into force after 180 days from the date of its publication in 
the Official Gazette and shall repeal any conflicting provisions. 
  13 

NEW PAGE
Law of Private Health Institutions
 
Royal Decree No. M/40 
January 6, 2003 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Translation of Saudi Laws 

NEW PAGE

Law of Private Health Institutions 
 
 
 
 
NOTE: 
The translation of Saudi laws takes the following into consideration: 
•  Words used in the singular form include the plural and vice versa.  
•  Words used in the masculine form include the feminine.  
•  Words used in the present tense include the present as well as the future.  
•  The word “person” or “persons” and their related pronouns (he, his, him, they, their, them) refer 
to a natural and legal person.  
 
   
    2 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Law of Private Health Institutions 
 
 
 
 
Law of Private Health Institutions 
Article 1 
In this Law, the following terms shall have the meanings assigned thereto, unless the 
context requires otherwise: 
-  Private Health Institutions: Health institutions owned by the private sector and 
equipped for treatment, diagnosis, nursing, medical tests, or rehabilitation, or for the 
accommodation of convalescents. They shall include the following: 
1.  Hospitals:  Facilities  where  patients  are  received,  examined,  treated,  and 
hospitalized. 
2.  General Polyclinics: Facilities where patients are received, examined, and treated. 
They shall have at least three different medical specialties, one of which a primary 
specialty  (e.g.,  surgery,  internal  medicine,  obstetrics  and  gynecology,  pediatrics, 
family medicine). 
3.  Specialized Polyclinics: Polyclinics including one medical specialty, or more, and its 
subspecialties. 
4.  Clinics: Facilities where patients are received, examined, and treated. 
5.  Radiology Centers: Facilities for diagnostic medical imaging or radiotherapy. 
6.  Medical Laboratories: Facilities for conducting laboratory tests. 
7.  Same-Day Surgery Centers: Health institutions licensed to hospitalize patients for 
conducting medical procedures; such as minor or intermediate surgeries, provided 
that the patient is discharged on the same day, in accordance with the Implementing 
Regulations. 
8.  Health Service Support Centers: Facilities that provide health or technical services 
supplementary to treatment and rehabilitation. They shall include the following:  
a)  Physiotherapy centers. 
b)  Optical stores. 
c)  Prosthetic stores. 
d)  Support centers approved as health services by the Minister of Health. 
9.  Ambulance  Transport  Service  Centers:  Units  in  charge  of  transporting  and 
providing first-aid services for patients or injured persons before hospitalization, in 
accordance with the specifications and controls set forth by the Saudi Red Crescent 
Society. 
-  Ministry: Ministry of Health. 
    3 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Law of Private Health Institutions 
 
 
 
 
-  Minister: Minister of Health. 
Article 2  
1.  Except for hospitals, a private health institution shall be exclusively owned by Saudis. 
2.  The owner of a clinic must be a physician specialized in the clinic's area of specialty 
and he shall supervise the clinic on a full-time basis. 
3.  Each polyclinic, medical laboratory, radiology center, or same-day surgery center shall 
have a full-time supervisor who shall be a Saudi physician or professional specialized 
in the area of specialty of the polyclinic, laboratory, or center whether he is an owner, 
co-owner,  or  otherwise.  Such  condition  may  be  waived  if  a  Saudi  physician  or 
professional  is  not  available,  subject  to  the  stipulations  of  the  Implementing 
Regulations.  
4.  In all cases, each private health institution shall have a full-time supervisor specialized 
in the institution's area of specialty. 
5.  The medical director of hospitals shall be a qualified Saudi physician, as per the 
Implementing Regulations. 
6.  The management of private health institutions shall be limited to qualified Saudis, in 
accordance with rules and conditions specified by the Implementing Regulations. 
Article 3 
Premises of a private health institution shall conform to the sanitary conditions as well as 
architectural specifications and proper distribution. It shall contain the necessary furniture, 
and medical and non-medical devices and equipment. The institution shall have a medical 
waste disposal system, an infection control system, and a medical information system. 
The  required  standards  and  conditions  shall  be  specified  in  the  Implementing 
Regulations.   
Article 4 
1.  No private health institution may be opened or operated except after satisfying all the 
conditions and requirements stipulated in this Law and its Implementing Regulations, 
upon obtaining all necessary licenses. 
2.  Health institutions shall be granted a renewable five-year license. 
    4 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Law of Private Health Institutions 
 
 
 
 
Article 5 
An applicant for a license to open a private health institution or renewal thereof shall pay 
the prescribed fee as follows:  
Private Health Institution  License or Renewal Fee 
Hospital with 50 beds or less  5,000 riyals 
Hospital with 51 to 100 beds  10,000 riyals 
Hospital with more than 100 beds  15,000 riyals 
General polyclinic  2,000 riyals 
Specialized polyclinic  2,000 riyals 
Clinic  1,000 riyals 
Radiology center  1,000 riyals 
Medical laboratory  2,000 riyals 
Same-day surgery center  2,000 riyals 
Health service support center  1,000 riyals 
Ambulance transport service center  1,000 riyals 
Article 6  
A private health institution shall be classified, upon obtaining or renewing a license, 
according to the criteria and conditions established by a specialized committee. The 
Implementing Regulations shall specify such committee and determine classification 
procedures and manner of implementation. 
Article 7  
Each private health institution shall determine the rates of services offered thereby, which 
shall be approved by the Ministry upon review and ensuring their compatibility with 
established standards. Said rates shall not be changed without the approval of  the 
Ministry. The institution shall:  
1.  comply with the approved rates of health services; 
2.  display the rates in clear writing in a visible location; 
3.  provide the patient with an estimate of the costs of treatment and services prior to 
commencement of treatment; and   
4.  provide the patient with a final detailed invoice of the type and cost of treatment and 
services rendered.  
    5 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Law of Private Health Institutions 
 
 
 
 
Article 8 
A  private  health  institution  may  not  hire  physicians  or other  health  practitioners or 
pharmacists except after they obtain a license to practice from the Ministry.  
Article 9 
The number of beds may not be less than 30 beds in a general hospital; 20 beds in a 
hospital with two specialties; and 10 beds in a single specialty hospital.   
Article 10 
A hospital shall have an adequate number of resident physicians, specialists, consultants, 
pharmacists, technicians, nurses, support health staff, and other necessary services 
according to its capacity and level of classification, in accordance with the standards and 
controls set forth by the Implementing Regulations. 
Article 11 
A hospital shall be equipped with the following: 
1.  Necessary medical devices and equipment; a laboratory and radiology unit based on 
its specialty(s); isolation rooms; intensive care beds; and all necessary ambulatory 
services as per the Implementing Regulations. 
2.  A dispensary that meets the terms and specifications determined in the Pharmacy 
Practice Law and its Implementing Regulations. 
Article 12 
A private health institution shall notify the competent health authority of any infectious 
pathological cases immediately upon diagnosis. Quarantine cases of infectious diseases 
shall be directly referred to the Ministry’s hospitals and the competent health authority 
shall  be  immediately  notified.  The  Implementing  Regulations  shall  specify  the 
requirements thereof. 
Article 13 
Clinics and polyclinics shall have an adequate quantity of medication and first aid tools 
as determined by the Implementing Regulations, and which are not intended for sale. 
Article 14 
Licensing for either a general or specialized polyclinic requires employing at least one 
consultant in each of the major specialties licensed at the polyclinic, and that at least one 
nurse is assigned to each clinic. As an exception, the number of consultants in such health 
    6 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Law of Private Health Institutions 
 
 
 
 
institutions in remote areas, as determined by the Ministry, may be reduced to one 
consultant, or may be specialists only. 
Article 15 
Services of the laboratory, radiology center, same-day surgery center, and health service 
support  center,  irrespective  of  type,  shall be  rendered  by  licensed  specialists.  The 
Implementing Regulations shall specify the conditions and work procedures for providing 
such services as well as the required qualifications of workers therein.  
Article 16 
A  private  health  institution  shall  provide  first-aid  treatment  to  all  serious  incoming 
emergency cases without any financial claims prior to providing treatment, in accordance 
with the Implementing Regulations.   
Article 17 
Committees for the inspection of private health institutions shall be formed in each 
directorate of health affairs to ensure implementation of the provisions of this Law and its 
Implementing Regulations as well as the decisions issued by the Ministry under this Law, 
and to monitor quality level. The Implementing Regulations shall determine the manner 
of forming said committees as well as their work procedures.    
Article 18 
A license shall be revoked upon transfer of ownership of a private health institution to 
another owner, or change of the institution's activity or location without the Ministry's 
approval. 
Article 19 
A license shall terminate in the following cases: 
1.  Expiry of the license and failure of the licensee to request a renewal; however, an 
application may be submitted to obtain a new license upon satisfying all statutory 
conditions. 
2.  Lapse of six months from the death of the owner of a private health institution. The 
heirs may retain the license for a period to be specified by the Ministry on a case by 
case basis, provided that the heirs submit a request for the retention of the license 
within six months from the date of death.   
    7 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Law of Private Health Institutions 
 
 
 
 
Article 20 
Without prejudice to any severer penalty prescribed by another law, any person who 
opens a private health institution without a license shall be subject to the following 
penalties: 
1.  Closure of the institution and denial of a license for a period not less than six months 
and not exceeding two years from the date of closure. 
2.  A fine of not less than 10,000 riyals and not exceeding 30,000 riyals, for health service 
support centers. 
3.  A fine of not less than 30,000 riyals and not exceeding 100,000 riyals, for medical 
laboratories, radiology centers, and ambulance transport service centers. 
4.  A fine of not less than 50,000 riyals and not exceeding 150,000 riyals, for clinics, 
polyclinics, and same-day surgery centers. 
5.  A fine of not less than 100,000 riyals and not exceeding 300,000 riyals, for hospitals 
regardless of class. 
Article 21 
Except for the violations stipulated in Article 20 and without prejudice to any severer 
penalty prescribed by another law, any person in violation of any of the provisions of this 
Law shall be subject to one or more of the following penalties: 
1.  A fine of not less than 10,000 riyals and not exceeding 100,000 riyals.   
2.  Closure of the private health institution for a period not exceeding 60 days. The 
institution  shall  take  all  necessary  arrangements  to  transfer  in-patients  to  other 
institutions prior to closure. 
3.  Withdrawal of the license, and in this case, the licensee may not apply for a new 
license except after the lapse of at least two years from the date of withdrawal. 
Article 22 
The legal medical committee provided for in the Law of Practicing Human Medicine and 
Dentistry shall have the power to consider the liability of private health institutions for 
medical errors subject of claims relating to private or public rights. 
Article 23 
Pursuant to a decision by the committees provided for in Article 25, the activity subject of 
the violation may be suspended - as a precautionary measure - if there are strong 
evidence  and  presumptions  of  the  occurrence  of  violations  substantiated  in  the 
preliminary investigation; the penalty for which, if established, is withdrawal of the license 
    8 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Law of Private Health Institutions 
 
 
 
 
or closure of the health institution. 
Article 24 
If closure of a private health institution results in harming the patients thereof, the Ministry 
shall take all necessary measures to continue the treatment of patients in the manner it 
deems fit.   
Article 25 
1.  Committees shall be formed at directorates of health affairs pursuant to a decision by 
the Minister; each committee shall comprise at least three members, one of whom 
shall be a consultant in a medical profession and the second, a legal adviser, to decide 
any violation of the provisions of this Law and impose stipulated penalties. Decisions 
of such committees shall be enforced only upon the approval of the Minister or his 
designee.  
2.  Aggrieved parties may appeal such decisions before the Board of Grievances within 
60 days from notification date. 
3.  The final decision imposing the penalty shall be published at the expense of the 
violator in three local newspapers, one of which at least is issued in his place of 
residence. If no such newspaper exists in said area, the decision shall be published 
in the newspaper issued in the nearest area.  
4.  The  Implementing  Regulations  shall  specify  the  term  of  membership  of  such 
committees and the procedures to be followed regarding conduct of business and 
notification of decisions. 
Article 26 
A private health institution shall, prior to signing a contract with any person it seeks to 
recruit, explain the provisions of the Labor Law, in addition to the procedure guide, job 
description, and relevant laws applicable in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. 
Article 27 
A private health institution shall enable health practitioners to attend continuous medical 
education programs in their area of specialty within the Kingdom or abroad, as determined 
by the Saudi Commission for Health Specialties.  
Article 28 
All hospitals shall have a medical library therein and shall subscribe to relevant scientific 
periodicals  within  their  field;  other  health  institutions  shall  provide  major  scientific 
periodicals related to their specialty. 
    9 
 
 

NEW PAGE

Law of Private Health Institutions 
 
 
 
 
Article 29 
In case of emergencies that require mobilizing all medical resources, the Minister may 
order the use of any private health institution, or part thereof, for purposes he determines; 
provided that the Ministry pays fair compensation for such use.   
Article 30 
A private health institution shall promptly notify the nearest competent law enforcement 
agency and the local directorate of health affairs of any criminal incident or the death of 
out-patients or in-patients. This shall include reporting any criminal incident that requires 
an injured person to request an ambulance or seek treatment therein. It shall also keep a 
full record of all traffic accidents and injuries.  
Article 31 
A private health institution may not undertake any act of publicity that conflicts with the 
code of professional ethics, in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Implementing 
Regulations.    
Article 32 
The Minister shall issue the Implementing Regulations of this Law within 90 days from the 
date of its publication in the Official Gazette. 
Article 33 
This Law shall supersede the Law of Private Medical Institutions promulgated by Royal 
Decree No. (M/58) dated 3/11/1407H.  
Article 34 
Licenses issued to private health institutions in accordance with the laws and directives 
in force at the time of issuance of this Law shall remain valid. Such institutions shall adjust 
their status according to the provisions of this Law and its Implementing Regulations 
within five years from the Implementing Regulations’ entry into force. This period may be 
extended upon the approval of the President of the Council of Ministers based on a 
recommendation by the Minister of Health.  
Article 35 
This Law shall be published in the Official Gazette, and shall enter into force 90 days from 
its publication date. 
    10 
 
 

NEW PAGE
Labor Law 
 
Royal Decree No. M/51 
September 27, 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Translation of Saudi Laws 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
NOTE: 
The translation of Saudi laws takes the following into consideration: 
•  Words used in the singular form include the plural and vice versa.  
•  Words used in the masculine form include the feminine.  
•  Words used in the present tense include the present as well as the future.  
•  The word “person” or “persons” and their related pronouns (he, his, him, they, their, 
them) refer to a natural and legal person.  
 
   
  2 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
Labor Law 
Part 1: Definitions and General Provisions 
Chapter 1: Definitions 
Article 1  
This law shall be called the Labor Law. 
Article 2  
In this Law, the following terms shall have the meanings assigned thereto, unless the 
context requires otherwise: 
Ministry: Ministry of Labor. 
Minister: Minister of Labor. 
Labor Office: The administrative authority assuming jurisdiction over the labor affairs 
within an area specified by a decision of the Minister. 
Employer: Any natural or corporate person employing one or more workers for a wage. 
Worker: Any natural person - male or female - working for an employer and under his 
management or supervision for a wage, even if said person is not under his direct control. 
Minor: Any person of 15 and below 18 years of age. 
Work: The effort exerted in all human activities in execution of a (written or unwritten) 
employment contract regardless of their nature or kind, be they industrial, commercial, 
agricultural, technical, or otherwise, whether physical or mental. 
Original Work: For individuals: Their usual business activities. For firms: The activities 
for which the firm was established as stated in its articles of incorporation, franchise 
contract – if a franchise company, or Commercial Register. 
Temporary Work: Work considered by its nature to be part of the employer’s activities, 
the completion of which requires a specific period or relates to a specific job and ends 
with its completion. It shall not exceed 90 days in either case. 
Incidental Work: Work that is not considered by its nature to be part of the usual activities 
of an employer, and its execution does not require more than 90 days. 
Seasonal Work: Work that takes place during known periodical seasons. 
  3 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
Part-Time Work: Work performed by a part-time worker for an employer and for less than 
half the usual daily working hours at the firm, whether such a worker works on a daily 
basis or on certain days of the week. 
Continuous Service: The uninterrupted service of a worker for the same employer or his 
legal successor from the starting date of service. Service shall be deemed continuous in 
the following cases: 
1.  Official holidays and vacations. 
2.  Interruptions for sitting for examinations in accordance with the provisions of this Law. 
3.  Worker’s unpaid absences from work for intermittent periods not exceeding 20 days 
per work year. 
Basic Wage: All that is given to a worker for his work by virtue of a written or unwritten 
employment contract regardless of the kind of wage or its method of payment, in addition 
to periodic increments. 
Actual Wage: The basic wage plus all other due increments decided for a worker for the 
effort he exerts at work or for risks he encounters in the course of performing his work, or 
those decided for the worker for the work under the employment contract or work 
organization regulation. This includes: 
1.  The commission or percentage from sales or profits paid against what the worker 
markets, produces, collects, or realizes from increased or enhanced production. 
2.  Allowances the worker is entitled to for exerted effort or risks he encounters while 
performing his job. 
3.  Increments that may be granted in accordance with the standard of living or to meet 
family expenses. 
4.  Grants or rewards: What the employer grants to a worker and what is paid to him for 
honesty  or  efficiency  and  the  like,  if  such  grant  or  reward  is  stipulated  in  the 
employment  contract  or  the  work  organization  regulation  of  the  firm,  or  if  it  is 
customarily granted to the extent that workers consider it part of the wage rather than 
a donation. 
5.  In rem privileges: What the employer commits himself to provide to the worker for his 
work  by  stating  the  same  in  the employment  contract  or  the  work  organization 
regulation, and it is estimated at a maximum of two months basic wage per annum, 
unless it is otherwise estimated to exceed that in the employment contract or the work 
organization regulation. 
Wage: actual wage. 
  4 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
Firm: Any enterprise run by a natural or corporate person which employs one or more 
workers for a wage of any kind. 
Month: 30 days, unless otherwise specified in the employment contract or the work 
organization regulation. 
Regulations: The Implementing Regulations of this Law. 
Chapter 2: General Provisions 
Article 3  
Work is the right of every citizen. No one else may exercise such right unless the 
conditions provided for in this Law are fulfilled. All citizens are equal in the right to work 
without discrimination on the basis of gender, disability, age, or any other  form of 
discrimination, whether during their performance of work, at the time of employment, or 
at the time of advertising 
Article 4  
When implementing the provisions of this Law, employers and workers shall adhere to 
the provisions of Sharia. 
Article 5  
Provisions of this Law shall apply to the following: 
1.  Any contract whereby a person commits himself to work for an employer and under 
his management or supervision, for a wage. 
2.  Workers of the government and public organizations and institutions including those 
who work in pastures or agriculture. 
3.  Workers of charitable institutions. 
4.  Qualification and training contracts with workers other than those working for the 
employer within the limits of the relevant provisions provided for in this Law. 
5.  Part-time workers with respect to safety, occupational health, and work injuries, as 
well as decisions issued by the Minister. 
Article 6  
Incidental, seasonal, and temporary workers shall be subject to the provisions on duties 
  5 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
and disciplinary rules, the maximum working hours, daily and weekly rest intervals, 
overtime work, official holidays, safety rules, occupational health, and work injuries and 
compensation therefore as well as whatever is decided by the Minister. 
Article 7  
1.  The following shall be exempted from the implementation of the provisions of this Law: 
a)  The employer's family members, namely, the spouse and the ascendants and 
descendants who constitute the only workers of the firm. 
b)  Players and coaches of sports clubs and federations. 
c)  Domestic workers and the like. 
d)  Agricultural workers, private herdsmen, and the like. 
e)  Sea workers working on board vessels with a load of less than 500 tons.  
f)  Non-Saudi workers entering the Kingdom to perform a specific task for a period 
not exceeding two months. 
2.  The  Minister  shall  issue,  in  coordination  with  relevant  agencies,  one  or  more 
regulations for the categories set out in subparagraphs (a), (c), (d), (e), and (f) of 
paragraph (1) of this Article, containing the rights, obligations, and other special 
provisions related to each category. 
Article 8  
Any condition that conflicts with the provisions of this Law shall be deemed null and void. 
The same applies to any release or settlement of the worker’s rights arising from this Law 
during the validity of the employment contract, unless the same is more beneficial to the 
worker. 
Article 9  
Arabic shall be the language used for data, records, files, employment contracts, and the 
like as provided for in this Law or in any decision issued in implementation of its provisions 
as well as the instructions issued by the employer to his workers. 
If the employer uses a foreign language besides Arabic in any of the aforementioned 
cases, the Arabic text shall prevail. 
Article 10  
All periods and schedules provided for in this Law shall be according to the Hijri calendar, 
  6 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
unless otherwise stated in the employment contract or the work organization regulation. 
Article 11  
If the employer assigns all or part of his original work to a natural or corporate person, the 
latter shall give his workers all the rights and privileges which the original employer gives 
to his workers. 
Article 11 bis  
Without prejudice to the provisions of this Law and relevant regulations, the Minister may 
take any measures that would improve the performance of the labor market and regulate 
labor mobility. 
Article 12  
1.  The Ministry shall develop one or more model bylaws which shall include rules and 
regulations related to the conduct of work. It shall also include provisions relating to 
benefits, violations, and disciplinary actions. 
2.  The Ministry shall set rules regulating the adoption of bylaws. 
Article 13  
1.  Every employer shall draft bylaws for his firm in line with the Ministry’s model bylaws. 
Exceptions to this provision may be granted by the Minister.  
2.  The employer may incorporate into the bylaws additional terms and conditions that do 
not conflict with the provisions of this Law, its Regulations, and the decisions for the 
implementation thereof. 
3.  The employer shall make the bylaws and any amendments thereto accessible to 
employees in a manner that ensures their knowledge of the provisions.  
Article 14  
Repealed 
Article 15  
An employer shall, upon commencement of work in any firm, notify the competent labor 
office in writing of the following data: 
1.  Name, type, and headquarters of the firm, as well as its mailing address and any 
information that facilitates contact therewith. 
  7 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
2.  Line of business for which it is licensed, providing the number of the Commercial 
Register or the license, its date, and issuing authority, together with a copy thereof. 
3.  Number of workers to be employed in the firm. 
4.  Name of the firm’s manager in-charge. 
5.  Any other data required by the Ministry. 
Article 16  
1.  If  the  employer  is  unable  to  run  the  business  in  person,  he  shall  designate  a 
representative at the workplace. In case of multiple partners or managers in the firm, 
one of them, from among those residing at the place of work, shall be nominated to 
represent the employer and be liable for any violation of the provisions of this Law. 
2.  The employer shall notify the competent labor office in writing of the name of the 
partner or manager, and, in case he is replaced, he shall notify the labor office of the 
name of the new partner or manager within seven days at most of the date the latter 
assumes the job. 
3.  In case no manager is appointed to be in charge of the firm, or if the appointed 
manager does not assume his duties, then the person who actually runs the firm or 
the employer himself shall be considered the manager in charge of the firm.  
In all cases, the employer is ultimately liable. 
Article 17  
An employer shall maintain, at the workplace, records, statements, and files the nature 
and contents of which shall be specified in the Regulations. He shall display at a visible 
location at the workplace a schedule of working hours, breaks, weekly rest days, and the 
time each shift starts and ends, when operating in shifts. 
Article 18  
If the ownership of a firm is transferred to a new owner or a change takes place in its legal 
form through merger, partition, or otherwise, employment contracts shall remain in force 
in both cases and service shall be deemed continuous. As for workers’ rights accrued for 
the period prior to the change, such as wages or unrealized end-of-service awards on the 
date of the transfer of ownership and other rights, the predecessor and the successor 
shall be jointly and severally liable. However, in the case of transfer of ownership of 
individual firms, for any reason, the predecessor and the successor may agree to transfer 
all the previous rights of the worker to the new owner subject to the written consent of the 
  8 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
worker. If the worker disapproves, he may request the termination of his contract and 
collect his dues from the predecessor. 
Article 19  
Amounts due to the worker or his heirs under this Law shall be deemed first rate privileged 
debts and the worker and his heirs shall, for the purpose of settling them, be entitled to a 
privilege over all the employer’s properties. In case of the employer’s bankruptcy or the 
liquidation of his firm, the aforementioned amounts shall be entered as privileged debts 
and the worker shall be paid an expedited amount equivalent to one month wage prior to 
the payment of any other expenses including judicial, bankruptcy, or liquidation expenses. 
Article 20  
An employer or a worker may not perform any act that may abuse the provisions of this 
Law or the decisions or regulations issued for its implementation. Neither of them may 
undertake any act that infringes upon the freedom of the other or the freedom of other 
workers or employers to realize any interest or impose a point of view that conflicts with 
the freedom of work or the jurisdiction of the competent authority in charge of the 
settlement of disputes. 
Article 21  
The Minister, in implementing the provisions of this Law, shall coordinate with relevant 
authorities whenever necessary. 
PART 2: Organization of Recruitment  
Chapter 1: Employment Units 
Article 22  
The Ministry shall provide employment units, free of charge, at locations convenient for 
employers and workers, which shall undertake the following: 
1.  Assist workers in finding suitable jobs and aid employers in recruiting suitable workers. 
2.  Gather necessary information on the labor market and its developments and analyzing 
such information to make it available to various public and private organizations 
concerned with economic and social planning affairs. 
  9 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
3.  Perform the following duties: 
3.1 Registering job seekers.  
3.2 Obtaining data on vacant jobs from employers. 
3.3 Referring workers’ applications to suitable vacant jobs. 
3.4 Providing  advice  and  assistance  to  job  seekers  with  respect  to  vocational 
qualification and training or the required retraining to fill vacancies. 
3.5 Other matters decided by the Ministry. 
Article 23  
Every citizen of working age who is capable of work and willing to work may register his 
name  at  the  employment  unit  along  with  his  date  of  birth,  qualifications,  previous 
employment, preferences, and address. 
Article 24  
The Regulations shall specify the rules and procedures for work progress at employment 
units, forms of registers, notices, and other papers used for its work in addition to job 
classification tables, according to the official job classification, which shall be the basis 
for organizing recruitment. 
Article 25  
Every employer shall send the following to the competent labor office: 
1.  A statement of vacant and new jobs, their types, locations, wages, and qualifications 
within a period not exceeding 15 days from the date of vacancy or creation thereof. 
2.  A notice of the measures taken to employ the citizens nominated by the employment 
unit within seven days from receiving the nomination letter. 
3.  A list of the names, jobs, professions, wages, ages, and nationalities of his workers, 
as well as the numbers and dates of work permits for non-Saudis and other data 
specified in the Regulations. 
4.  A report on the status, conditions, and nature of work and the anticipated increase or 
decrease in jobs during the year following the date of the report. 
5.  The statements specified in paragraphs (3) and (4) of this Article shall be sent during 
the month of Muharram of every year. 
  10 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 26  
1.  All firms in all fields, and regardless of the number of workers, shall work to attract and 
employ Saudis, create conditions to keep them on the job, and avail them of adequate 
opportunities to prove their suitability for the job by guiding, training, and qualifying 
them for their assigned jobs. 
2.  The percentage of Saudi workers employed by an employer shall not be less than 
75% of the total number of his workers. The Minister may temporarily reduce this 
percentage in case of the lack of adequate technically or academically qualified 
workers or if it is not possible to fill vacant jobs with nationals. 
Article 27  
The Minister may – when necessary in certain activities and professions and in some 
provinces and counties - require employers not to employ workers until they have been 
registered at employment units under the terms and conditions specified pursuant to his 
decision. 
Chapter 2: Employment of the Disabled 
Article 28  
Each employer employing 25 workers or more where the nature of his work allows 
recruitment of the professionally disabled shall employ a number of disabled persons that 
represents at least 4% of the total number of his workers whether through nomination by 
employment units or otherwise, and he shall send to the competent labor office a list of 
the jobs and posts occupied by professionally rehabilitated disabled persons and their 
wages. 
Article 29  
If a worker sustains a work injury that results in a loss in his usual capabilities that does 
not prevent him from performing another job, the employer, under whose service the work 
injury was sustained, shall employ said worker in a suitable job for the wage specified for 
such job. This shall not prejudice the worker's due compensation for the injury. 
  11 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 3: Private Offices for the Recruitment of Citizens and Private Offices for 
Recruiting from Abroad 
Article 30  
A natural or corporate person may not engage in the recruitment of Saudis or in the 
recruitment of workers from abroad unless licensed for the same by the Ministry. The 
Regulations shall determine the functions of these two types of activities, the conditions 
for granting and renewing a license to each of them, and the duties and prohibitions as 
well as rules for non-renewal or revocation of the license and the consequences thereof, 
and other conditions and controls necessary for ensuring the proper conduct of business. 
Article 31  
Saudi workers to whose employment the recruitment offices contributed and workers 
recruited from abroad on behalf of employers shall be deemed workers of the employer 
and bound to him by direct contractual relation. 
PART 3: Employment of Non-Saudis 
Article 32  
Recruitment from abroad for the purpose of work may not be undertaken without the 
approval of the Ministry. 
Article 33  
A non-Saudi may not engage in or be allowed to engage in any work except after 
obtaining a work permit from the Ministry, according to the form prepared by it for this 
purpose.  
The conditions for granting the permit are as follows: 
1.  The worker has lawfully entered the country and is authorized to work. 
2.  The worker possesses the professional or academic qualifications which the country 
needs and which are not possessed by citizens or the available number of such 
citizens is insufficient to meet the needs, or that he belongs to the class of ordinary 
workers that the country needs. 
3.  The worker has a contract with an employer and is under his responsibility.  
  12 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
The word work in this Article shall mean any industrial, commercial, agricultural, financial, 
or other work, and any service including domestic service. 
Article 34  
No permit or license required by any other agency for engaging in a work or profession 
shall substitute for said work permit. 
Article 35  
The Ministry may decline to renew the work permit if the employer violates the Saudization 
requirements set by the Ministry. 
Article 36  
The  Minister  shall  issue  a  decision  specifying  the  professions  and  jobs  which  are 
prohibited for non-Saudis. 
Article 37  
The employment contract for non-Saudis shall be written and of a fixed term. If the 
contract does not specify the duration, the duration of the work permit shall be deemed 
the duration of the contract. 
Article 38  
An employer may not employ a worker in a profession other than the one specified in his 
work permit. A worker is prohibited from engaging in a profession other than his before 
taking the legal measures necessary to change his profession.  
Article 39  
1.  Unless he has followed the stipulated legal rules and procedures, an employer may 
not allow his worker to work for others, and a worker may not work for other employers. 
Similarly, an employer may not employ the workers of other employers. The Ministry 
of Labor shall inspect firms, investigate violations of this paragraph detected by its 
inspectors, and refer them to the Ministry of Interior for the imposition of prescribed 
penalties.  
2.  An employer may not allow a worker to work for his own account and a worker may 
not work for his own account. The Ministry of Interior shall be in charge of detection, 
detention, deportation, and imposition of penalties on violators working for their own 
account  in  streets  and  squares,  as  well  as  absconding  workers  and  persons 
  13 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
employing, hiding, or transporting them as well as any person involved in such 
violation, and shall impose the prescribed penalties against them. 
Article 40  
1.  An employer shall bear the fees pertaining to the recruitment of non-Saudi workers, 
the fees for issuing and renewing residence permit (Iqama) and work permit, and the 
fines resulting from their delay, as well as the fees pertaining to change of profession, 
exit and re-entry visas, and return tickets to the worker’s home country at the end of 
the relation between the two parties. 
2.  A worker shall bear the costs of returning to his home country if he is unfit for work or 
if he wishes to return to his home country without a legitimate reason. 
3.  An employer shall bear the fees of transferring the services of a worker who wishes 
to transfer his service to him. 
4.  An employer shall be responsible for the cost of preparing the body of a deceased 
worker and transporting it to the location where the contract was concluded, or where 
the worker was recruited unless the worker is interred in the Kingdom with the approval 
of his family. The employer shall be relieved if the General Organization for Social 
Insurance (GOSI) undertakes the same. 
Article 41  
The Regulations shall specify the conditions, controls, and procedures for recruitment 
from abroad, transfer of services, and change of profession. 
PART 4: Training and Qualification 
Chapter 1: Training and Qualification of the Employer’s Workers  
Article 42  
An employer shall be required to prepare his Saudi workers and enhance their technical, 
administrative, vocational, and other skills for the purpose of gradually replacing non-
Saudis. 
The employer shall keep a record showing the names of the Saudi workers who have 
replaced  non-Saudis  in  accordance  with  the  conditions  and  rules  set  forth  in  the 
Regulations. 
  14 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 43  
Without prejudice to the conditions set forth in franchise and other agreements regarding 
training and qualification, every employer employing 50 or more workers shall annually 
train, in his business, a number of his Saudi workers not less than 12% of the total number 
of his workers. This percentage shall include Saudi workers who are pursuing their 
studies if the employer is covering their tuition fees. The Minster may raise this percentage 
in certain firms pursuant to a decision by him. 
Article 44  
The training program shall include the rules and conditions to be followed in training, its 
duration, number of hours, theoretical and practical training programs, testing method, 
and the certificates to be granted in this regard. The Regulations shall set forth the general 
criteria and rules to be followed in this regard to raise the worker’s level of performance 
in terms of skill and productivity. 
Chapter 2: Qualification and Training Contracts of other than the Employer’s 
Workers 
Article 45  
A training or qualification contract is a contract which commits the employer to train and 
qualify a person for a specific profession. 
Article 46  
A training or qualification contract shall be in writing, indicating the profession for which 
the training is contracted, the duration of training and its successive stages, and the 
allowance to be paid to the trainee at each stage, provided that it is not based on 
piecemeal or productivity. 
Article 47  
The Minister may require firms, to be determined pursuant to a decision by him, to accept 
a certain number or percentage of the students and graduates of colleges, institutes, and 
centers to receive training and supplementary practical experience in accordance with 
the conditions, circumstances, durations, and trainee allowances to be specified in an 
agreement to be concluded between the Ministry and the management of the relevant 
firm. 
  15 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 48  
1.  The employer may terminate the training contract if it is established that the trainee is 
incapable of completing the training program. The trainee or his guardian shall be 
entitled to the same. The party seeking to terminate the contract shall notify the other 
party of this at least one week prior to the date of termination of training. 
2.  Following completion of training, the employer shall be entitled to require the trainee 
to work for him for a period equivalent to that of the training. If the trainee refuses to 
work for a similar period or part thereof, he shall pay to the employer the cost of 
training incurred by the employer or the cost of the remaining period. 
Article 49  
The training and qualification contract shall be subject to the provisions of this Law in 
terms of annual vacations, official holidays, maximum working hours, daily and weekly 
rest periods, occupational health and safety rules, and work injuries and their conditions 
as well as whatever is decided by the Minister. 
PART 5: Work Relations 
Chapter 1: Employment contract 
Article 50  
An employment contract is a contract concluded between an employer and a worker, 
whereby the latter undertakes to work under the management or supervision of the former 
for a wage. 
Article 51  
The employment contract shall be executed in duplicate, one copy to be retained by each 
of the two parties. However, a contract shall be deemed to exist even if not written. In this 
case the worker alone may establish the contract and his entitlements arising therefrom 
by all methods of proof. Either party may at any time demand that the contract be in 
writing. As for workers of the government and public corporations, the appointment 
decision or order issued by the competent authority shall serve as the contract. 
  16 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 52  
1.  Subject to the provisions of Article 37 of this Law, the Ministry shall create a model 
employment  contract,  which  shall  primarily  include  the  name  and  place  of  the 
employer; the name and nationality of the worker; proof of identity; place of residence; 
agreed upon wage, including benefits and allowances; type and location of work; date 
of employment; and duration of the contract if fixed. 
2.  The employment contract shall be in accordance with the model contract referred to 
in paragraph (1) of this Article. The parties to the contract may add other items not 
conflicting with the provisions of this Law, its Regulations, and relevant decisions. 
Article 53  
If the worker is subject to a probation period, the same shall be expressly stated and 
clearly indicated in the work contract, provided that such probation period shall not exceed 
90 days, exclusive of Eid Al-Fitr and Eid Al-Adha holidays and sick leaves. The probation 
period may be extended by written agreement between the worker and the employer, 
provided that it shall not exceed 180 days. Each party shall have the right to terminate 
the contract during this period, unless the contract contains a provision giving the right to 
terminate the contract to only one of them. 
Article 54  
A worker may not be placed on probation more than once by the same employer. As an 
exception, the worker may, with the approval of contract parties, in writing, be subjected 
to another probation period provided that such period involves another profession or work, 
or if no less than six months have elapsed since the termination of the work relationship 
between the worker and the employer. If the contract is terminated during the probation 
period, neither party shall be entitled to compensation nor shall the worker be entitled to 
an end-of-service award. 
Article 55  
1.  A fixed-term employment contract shall terminate upon expiration of its term. If the two 
parties continue to implement it, the contract shall be deemed to have been renewed 
for an indefinite period of time, subject to the provisions of Article 37 of this Law for 
non-Saudi workers. 
2.  If a fixed-term contract contains a clause providing for its renewal for a similar term or 
a specified term, the contract shall be renewed for the agreed upon period. If the 
contract is renewed for three consecutive terms, or if the original contract term and 
the renewal period amount to four years, whichever is less, and the parties continue 
  17 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
to implement it, the contract shall become an indefinite term contract. 
Article 56  
In all cases where the contract term is renewed for a specific period of time, the contract 
renewal period shall be deemed an extension of the original term in determining the 
worker’s rights which takes into account the worker’s period of service. 
Article 57  
If  the  contract  involves  performance  of  a  specific  work,  it  shall  terminate  with  the 
completion of the agreed upon work. 
Article 58  
1.  The employer may not relocate the worker from his original place of work to another 
place that requires a change in place of residence without his written consent. 
2.  The employer may, in exigent circumstances and for a period not exceeding 30 days 
per year, assign the worker without his consent to a different location, provided that 
the employer bears the costs of the worker’s transport and residence during such 
period. 
Article 59  
A monthly-paid worker may not be reclassified as a daily-paid,a weekly-paid, or hourly-
paid worker nor as a worker paid by piecework, unless the worker agrees thereto in writing 
and without prejudice to the rights he has acquired during the period he spent as a 
monthly-paid worker.  
Article 60  
Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 38 of this Law, a worker may not be assigned 
duties which are essentially different from the agreed upon work without his written 
consent, except in cases of necessity dictated by transient circumstances and for a period 
not exceeding 30 days a year. 
  18 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 2: Duties and Disciplinary Rules 
First: Employers’ Duties 
Article 61  
In addition to the duties provided for in this Law and the regulations and decisions issued 
for its implementation, the employer shall be required to: 
1.  Refrain from resorting to forced labor, or withholding the worker’s wage or part thereof 
without court order, or mistreating the worker in any manner that may infringe upon 
his dignity or religion. 
2.  Give the workers the time required to exercise their rights as provided for in this Law 
without any deductions from their wages against such time. He may regulate the 
exercise of this right in a manner not detrimental to work progress. 
3.  Facilitate for the employees of the competent authorities any task related to the 
enforcement of the provisions of this Law. 
Article 62  
If the worker reports to work on the prescribed time or expresses his readiness to perform 
his work at such time but is prevented from doing so only by a cause which is ascribed to 
the employer, the worker shall be entitled to the wage for the period during which no work 
is performed. 
Article 63  
The employer, his agents, or any person having authority over the workers shall prohibit 
the entry of any illegal substances into places of work. Anyone who is found in possession 
of or consumes such substances shall be subject to the punishments provided for in this 
Law, without prejudice to other punishments provided for in Sharia. 
Article 64  
Upon expiration of the employment contract, the employer shall be required to: 
1.  Give the worker, upon his request, a certificate of work experience free of charge, 
stating the date of commencing work, date of the end of the relationship with them, 
profession, and amount of the last salary. The employer may not include in the 
certificate any remark that would undermine the reputation of the worker or his 
chances of future employment. 
  19 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
2.  Return to the worker all certificates or documents he had deposited with the employer. 
Second: Workers’ Duties 
Article 65  
In addition to the duties provided for in this Law and the regulations and decisions issued 
in implementation thereof, the worker shall be required to: 
1.  Perform the work in accordance with the trade practice and the employer’s instructions 
provided that such instructions do not conflict with the contract, the law, or public 
morality and that they do not expose him to any undue hazards. 
2.  Take due care of the employer’s machinery, tools, supplies, and raw materials which 
are placed at his disposal or in his custody and return unused materials to the 
employer. 
3.  Abide by proper conduct and ethical norms during work. 
4.  Extend all assistance and help without making it contingent on additional pay in cases 
of disasters or hazards threatening the workplace or the persons working therein. 
5.  Undergo, upon the employer’s request, the medical examinations required prior to or 
during employment to ensure that he is free from occupational or communicable 
diseases. 
6.  Keep confidential the technical, trade, and industrial secrets of the materials he 
produces or those to which he directly or indirectly contributes to the production 
thereof, as well as all trade secrets related to the work or firm, the disclosure of which 
is likely to cause damage to the employer’s interests. 
Third: Disciplinary Rules 
Article 66  
The disciplinary penalties that an employer may inflict on a worker are as follows: 
1.  Warnings. 
2.  Fines. 
3.  Withholding or postponing a raise for a period not exceeding one year if prescribed by 
the employer. 
4.  Postponement of a promotion for a period not exceeding one year if prescribed by the 
employer. 
  20 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
5.  Suspension from work and withholding wages. 
6.  Dismissal from work in cases set forth by the law. 
Article 67  
An employer may not inflict on a worker a penalty not provided for in this Law or in the 
work organization regulation. 
Article 68  
A penalty shall not be made harsher in the event of a repeated violation if 180 days have 
elapsed since the previous violation was committed, as of the date the worker is informed 
of the penalty for that violation. 
Article 69  
A worker may not be accused of any violation discovered after the elapse of more than 
30 days, nor shall he be subjected to a disciplinary penalty after the elapse of more than 
30 days from the conclusion of the investigation and establishment of the worker’s guilt. 
Article 70  
A worker may not be subjected to a disciplinary penalty for an act committed outside the 
workplace unless such act is related to the job, the employer, or the manager in-charge. 
Nor may a worker be fined for a single violation an amount in excess of a five-day wage, 
and not more than one penalty shall be applied for the same violation. No more than the 
equivalent of a five-day wage shall be deducted from his wage in one month in the 
payment of fines, and his suspension from work without pay may not exceed five days a 
month. 
Article 71  
A disciplinary action may not be imposed on a worker except after notifying him in writing 
of the allegations, interrogating him, hearing his defense, and recording the same in 
minutes to be kept in his file. The interrogation may be verbal in minor violations the 
penalty for which does not exceed a warning or the deduction of an amount equivalent to 
one-day wage. This shall be recorded in the minutes. 
Article 72  
The worker shall be notified in writing of the decision of imposing the penalty on him. If 
he refuses to receive the same or if he is absent, the notice shall be sent to the address 
  21 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
shown in his file by registered mail. The worker may object to the decision of imposing 
the penalty upon him within 15 days, excluding official holidays, from the date of notifying 
him of the final decision. The objection shall be filed with the labor court which shall be 
required to issue its decision within 30 days from the date of registering the objection. 
Article 73  
The employer must keep a special record of the fines imposed on the worker, stating the 
name of the worker, his wage, the amount of the fine, the cause for imposing the fine, 
and the date of the fine. Fines may only be disbursed by the labor committee at the firm 
for the benefit of the workers of the firm. In the absence of such committee, disbursement 
of the fines shall be subject to the Ministry’s approval. 
Chapter 3: Termination of an Employment Contract 
Article 74  
An employment contract shall terminate in any of the following cases: 
1.  If both parties agree to terminate it, provided that the worker’s consent is in writing. 
2.  If the term specified in the contract expires, unless the contract has been explicitly 
renewed in accordance with the provisions of this Law. In such case, it shall remain in 
force until the expiry of its term. 
3.  At the discretion of either party in indefinite term contracts, as stated in Article 75 of 
this Law. 
4.  When the worker reaches the age of retirement in accordance with the provisions of 
the Social Insurance Law unless the parties agree on continuing work after this age. 
5.  Force majeure. 
6.  Permanent closure of the firm. 
7.  Termination of the line of business for which the worker is employed, unless agreed 
otherwise.  
8.  Any other case provided for by any other law. 
Article 75  
If the contract is of an indefinite term, either party may terminate it for a valid reason to 
be specified in a written notice served to the other party prior to the termination date as 
  22 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
specified in the contract, provided that such period is not less than 60 days if the worker’s 
wage is paid monthly, and not less than 30 days for non-monthly wages. 
Article 76  
If the party terminating an indefinite term contract fails to observe the notice period 
specified in accordance with Article 75 of this Law, such party shall be required to pay the 
other party a compensation equal to the worker’s pay for the duration of the notice period, 
unless the two parties agree on a greater compensation. 
Article 77  
Unless the contract includes specific compensation for the termination by either party for 
an invalid reason, the party affected by termination shall be entitled to compensation as 
follows: 
1.  For indefinite term contracts: an amount equivalent to fifteen-day wage for each year 
of the worker’s employment. 
2.  For fixed-term contracts: the wage for the remainder of the contract term. 
3.  The compensation referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this Article shall not be less 
than the worker’s wage for two months. 
Article 78  
If notice is made by the employer, the worker shall be entitled to a paid leave of absence 
of a full day or eight hours per week, to seek other employment. The worker shall be 
entitled to determine the time of the leave of absence, provided that the employer is 
notified at least one day in advance. The employer may relieve the worker from attending 
work during the notice period without affecting the worker’s term of service or entitlements 
for such period. 
Article 79  
An employment contract shall not expire by the death of the employer unless his person 
has been taken into consideration in concluding the contract, but shall expire with the 
death or incapacity of the worker pursuant to a medical report approved by the competent 
health authority or the authorized physician designated by the employer. 
Article 80  
An employer may not terminate the contract without giving the worker an award, advance 
notice, or indemnity except in the following cases, and provided that he gives the worker 
  23 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
a chance to state his reasons for objecting to the termination: 
1.  If, during or by reason of the work, the worker assaults the employer, the manager in-
charge, or any of his superiors. 
2.  If  the  worker  fails  to perform  his  main  obligations  arising  from  the  employment 
contract, or fails to obey legitimate orders, or if, in spite of written warnings, he 
deliberately fails to observe instructions related to the safety of work and workers 
which have been posted by the employer in a visible place. 
3.  If it is established that the worker has committed a misconduct or an act infringing on 
honesty or integrity. 
4.  If the worker deliberately commits or omits any act with the intent to cause material 
loss to the employer, provided that the employer reports the incident to the competent 
authorities within 24 hours after becoming aware of its occurrence. 
5.  If it is established that the worker has committed forgery to obtain the job. 
6.  During the probation period. 
7.  If the worker is absent without a valid reason for more than 30 days in one contractual 
year or for more than 15 consecutive days, provided that the dismissal is preceded by 
a written warning from the employer to the worker if the latter is absent for 20 days in 
the first case and for 10 days in the second. 
8.  If it is established that the worker has unlawfully taken advantage of his position for 
personal gain.  
9.  If it is established that the worker has disclosed trade secrets. 
Article 81  
Without prejudice to all of his statutory rights, a worker may leave his job without notice 
in any of the following cases: 
1.  If the employer fails to fulfill his essential contractual or statutory obligations towards 
the worker. 
2.  If the employer or his representative resorts to fraud at the time of contracting with 
respect to work conditions and circumstances. 
3.  If the employer assigns the worker, without his consent, to perform work which is 
essentially different from the agreed upon work and in violation of the provisions of 
Article 60 of this Law. 
4.  If the employer, a family member thereof, or the manager in-charge commits a violent 
assault or an immoral act against the worker or any of his family members. 
  24 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
5.  If the treatment of the employer or the manager in-charge is characterized by cruelty, 
injustice, or insult. 
6.  If there exists in the workplace a serious hazard threatening the safety or health of the 
worker, provided that the employer is aware thereof  but fails to take measures 
indicating its removal. 
7.  If the employer or his representative, through his actions and particularly his unjust 
treatment or violation of the terms of the contract, causes the worker to appear as the 
party terminating the contract. 
Article 82  
An employer may not terminate the worker’s services on account of illness prior to availing 
him of the period designated for sick leave as provided for in this Law. The worker shall 
have the right to request that his sick leave be combined with his annual leave. 
Article 83  
1.  If the work assigned to the worker allows him to get acquainted with the employer’s 
clients, the employer may, for the protection of his legitimate interests, require the 
worker not to compete with him upon termination of the contract. For this condition to 
be valid, it shall be in writing and specific, in terms of time, place, and type of work. 
The validity of such condition shall not exceed two years from the date of termination 
of the relationship between the two parties. 
2.  If the work assigned to the worker allows him to have access to the employer’s 
business secrets, the employer may, for the protection of his legitimate interests, 
require the worker not to disclose such secrets upon termination of the contract. For 
this condition to be valid, it shall be in writing and specific, in terms of time, place, and 
type of work. 
3.  As an exception to the provisions of this Law, the employer may file a suit within one 
year from the date of discovery of the worker’s violation of any of his obligations 
pursuant to this Article. 
Chapter 4: End-of-Service Award 
Article 84  
Upon the end of the employment relation, the employer shall pay the worker an end-of-
service award equivalent to the amount of a half-month wage for each of the first five 
  25 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
years and a one-month wage for each of the following years. The end-of-service award 
shall be calculated on the basis of the last wage and the worker shall be entitled to an 
end-of-service award for the portions of the year in proportion to the time spent on the 
job. 
Article 85  
If the employment relation ends due to the worker’s resignation, he shall, in this case, be 
entitled to one third of the award after service of not less than two consecutive years and 
not more than five years, to two thirds if his service is in excess of five consecutive years 
but less than 10 years, and to the full award if his service amounts to 10 years or more. 
Article 86  
As an exception to the provisions of Article 8 of this Law, it may be agreed that the wage 
used as a basis for calculating the end-of-service award does not include all or some of 
the commissions, sales percentages, and similar wage components paid to the worker 
which are by their nature subject to increase or decrease.  
Article 87  
As an exception to the provisions of Article 85 of this Law, the worker shall be entitled to 
the full end-of-service award if he leaves the work due to a force majeure beyond his 
control. A female worker shall likewise be entitled to the full award if she ends her contract 
within six months from the date of her marriage or three months from the date of giving 
birth. 
Article 88  
Upon the end of the worker’s service, the employer shall pay his wages and settle his 
entitlements within a maximum period of one week from the date of the end of the 
contractual relation. If the worker ends the contract, the employer shall settle all his 
entitlements within a period not exceeding two weeks. The employer may deduct any 
work-related debt due to him from the worker’s entitlements. 
  26 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
PART 6: Work Conditions and Circumstances 
Chapter 1: Wages 
Article 89  
The Council of Ministers may, when necessary and upon a proposal by the Minister, set 
a minimum wage. 
Article 90  
1.  The worker’s wage and all other dues shall be paid in the local currency in accordance 
with the following: 
a)  Workers paid on a daily basis shall be paid at least once a week. 
b)  Workers paid on a monthly basis shall be paid once a month. 
c)  If the work is done by piece and requires a period of more than two weeks, the 
worker shall receive a payment each week commensurate with the completed 
portion of the work. The balance of the wage shall be paid in full during the week 
following delivery of the work.  
d)  In cases other than the above, worker’s wages shall be paid at least once a week. 
2.  Firms shall be required to deposit workers’ wages into their bank accounts through 
approved banks in the Kingdom, provided that their due date does not exceed the 
deadlines  referred  to  above.  The  Minister  may  exempt  some  firms  from  such 
requirement. 
Article 91  
1.  If a worker, as a result of his own fault or his violation of the employer’s instructions 
and not as a result of a third party’s fault or a force majeure, causes loss, damage, or 
destruction to machinery or products owned by the employer while in his custody, the 
employer may deduct from the worker’s wage the amount necessary for repair or 
restoration to the original condition, provided that such deductions do not exceed an 
amount equivalent to five-day wage per month. The employer may file a grievance, if 
necessary, demanding more deductions if the worker has other properties from which 
collections may be made. The worker may file a grievance with the  labor court 
regarding the allegations leveled at him or the employer’s estimation of the damages. 
If the labor court rules that the employer is not entitled to claim such deductions or if 
  27 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
it awards the employer a lower amount, the employer shall return to the worker the 
amounts unjustifiably deducted, within seven days from the date of the award. 
2.  Either party shall file its grievance within 15 work days; otherwise, their right to do so 
shall be forfeited. For the employer, the date of filing the grievance shall be from the 
date the incident is discovered, and for the worker, from the date of his notification of 
the same by the employer. 
Article 92  
No amount shall be deducted from a worker’s wages against private rights without his 
written consent, except in the following cases: 
1.  Repayment of loans extended by the employer, provided that such deductions do 
not exceed 10% of his wage. 
2.  Social insurance or any other contributions due on workers as provided for by law. 
3.  Worker’s contributions to thrift funds or loans due to such funds. 
4.  Installments of any scheme undertaken by the employer involving home ownership 
programs or any other privilege.  
5.  Fines imposed on the worker on account of violations he commits, as well as 
deductions made for damages he causes. 
6.  Any debt collected in implementation of a judicial judgment, provided that the 
monthly deduction shall not exceed one quarter of the worker‘s wage, unless the 
judgment provides otherwise.  
First to be collected is alimony, followed by food, clothing, and accommodation debts, 
before other debts. 
Article 93 
In all cases, deductions made may not exceed half the worker’s due wage, unless the 
labor court determines that further deductions can be made or that the worker is in need 
of more than half his wage. In the latter case, the worker may not be given more than 
three quarters of his wage. 
Article 94  
1.  If any amount is deducted from a worker’s wages for reasons other than those 
specified in this Law without his written consent, or if an employer delays, without a 
valid justification, payment of a worker’s wage beyond the due date set forth in the 
Law, the worker, his representative, or the head of the competent labor office may 
submit a request to the labor court to order the employer to return to the worker any 
wrongfully-deducted amounts or to pay him his outstanding wages. 
  28 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
2.  The labor court may, if it establishes that the employer has unjustifiably deducted said 
amounts or delayed the payment of wages, impose on the employer a fine not 
exceeding twice the amount deducted from the worker’s wage or twice the outstanding 
wages. 
Article 95  
1.  If the employment contract or the work organization regulation does not provide for 
the wage binding on the employer, the wage estimated for the same type of work in 
the firm, if any, shall be adopted; otherwise, the wage shall be estimated in accordance 
with the norms of the profession at the place where the work is performed. In the 
absence of such norms, the labor court shall estimate the wage in accordance with 
the dictates of justice. 
2.  The same shall also apply in determining the type and scope of the service that the 
worker is required to render. 
Article 96  
1.  If the worker’s wage is determined on the basis of piecework or productivity, the 
average wage which the worker receives for his actual work days during the last year 
of his service shall be used as the basis for calculating any entitlements determined 
for the worker under this Law. 
2.  If the entire wage is the amounts received as commissions, percentages of sales, or 
the like which are by nature subject to increases or decreases, the daily average wage 
shall be calculated on the basis of the amounts the worker receives for the actual work 
days, divided by them. 
Article 97  
If a worker is detained or taken into custody by the competent authorities in cases related 
to work or occasioned by it, the employer shall continue to pay the worker 50% of the 
wage until the case is decided, provided that the period of detention or custody shall not 
exceed 180 days. If said period exceeds that, the employer shall not be required to pay 
any portion of the wage for the excess period. If the worker is acquitted or the investigation 
is closed for lack of evidence or invalidity thereof, the employer shall return to the worker 
the amount previously deducted from his wage. However, if he is convicted, none of the 
payments made to him shall be recovered unless the judgment provides otherwise. 
  29 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 2: Working Hours 
Article 98  
A worker may not actually work for more than nine hours a day if the employer uses the 
daily work criterion, or more than forty-five hours a week if he uses the weekly criterion. 
During the month of Ramadan, the actual working hours for Muslims shall be reduced to 
a maximum of seven hours a day or thirty-five hours a week. 
Article 99  
The number of working hours provided for in Article (98) of this Law may be raised to ten 
hours a day for certain categories of workers or in certain industries and jobs where the 
worker does not work continuously. It may likewise be reduced to eight hours a day for 
certain categories of workers or in certain hazardous or harmful industries or jobs. 
Categories of workers, industries and jobs referred to shall be determined pursuant to a 
decision by the Minister. 
Article 100  
 In exception to Articles (98) and (101) of this Law, the employer may, with the Ministry’s 
approval, increase the number of working hours to more than nine hours a day or forty-
five hours a week, provided that the average working hours when calculated over a period 
of three weeks or less is not more than nine hours a day or forty-five hours a week, in 
firms where work is done in shifts. 
Chapter 3: Rest Periods and Weekly Rest Days 
First: Rest Periods 
Article 101  
Working hours and rest periods during the day shall be scheduled so that no worker shall 
work for more than five consecutive hours without a break of no less than thirty minutes 
each time during the total working hours for rest, prayer and meals, provided that a worker 
does not remain at the workplace for more than 12 hours a day. 
  30 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 102  
The periods designated for rest, prayers, and meals shall not be included in the actual 
working hours. During such periods, the worker shall not be under the employer’s 
authority. The employer shall not require the worker to remain at the workplace during 
such breaks. 
Article 103  
The Minister may specify, pursuant to a decision by him, the cases and jobs where work 
shall continue without breaks, for technical reasons or operational conditions. In such 
cases and jobs, the employer shall allow prayer, meals, and rest periods to be scheduled 
during working hours by the management of the firm. 
Second: Weekly Rest Days 
Article 104  
1-  A worker shall be entitled to two rest days a week with full pay, one of which shall be 
a Friday. 
2-  An employer may, upon notifying the relevant labor office, substitute Friday for some 
of his workers with any other day of the week. The employer shall allow workers to 
observe their religious duties. 
Article 105  
As an exception to the provisions of Article 104 of this Law, in remote areas and in jobs 
where the nature of work and operational conditions require continuous work, weekly rest 
periods accruing to the worker may be consolidated for up to eight weeks if the employer 
and the workers agree to that effect, subject to the Ministry’s approval. In calculating 
consolidated weekly rest periods, it shall be taken into consideration that said periods 
begin at the hour the workers arrive at the nearest city with transportation services and 
end at the hour the workers return to it.  
Article 106  
An employer may not comply with the provisions of Articles 98, 101, and 104 (1) of this 
Law, in the following cases: 
1.  Annual inventory activities, preparation of the budget, liquidation, closing of accounts, 
and preparations for discounts and seasonal sales, provided that the number of days 
during which the workers work shall not exceed 30 days a year. 
  31 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
2.  If the work is intended to prevent a hazardous accident, remedy its impact, or avoid 
an imminent loss of perishable materials. 
3.  If the work is intended to meet unusual work pressure. 
4.  Eids, other seasons and occasions, and seasonal activities specified pursuant to a 
decision by the Minister.  
In all of the above cases, actual working hours shall not exceed 10 hours a day or 60 
hours a week. The maximum overtime hours allowed per year shall be determined by a 
decision of the Minister. 
Article 107  
1.  The employer shall pay the worker for overtime working hours an additional amount 
equal to the hourly wage plus 50% of his basic wage. 
2.  If the firm is operated on the basis of weekly working hours, the hours in excess of the 
hours taken as the criterion shall be deemed overtime hours. 
3.  All working hours performed during holidays and Eids shall be deemed overtime 
hours. 
Article 108  
The provisions of Articles 98 and 101 of this Law shall not apply to the following cases: 
1.  Persons occupying high positions of authority in management and policy, if such 
positions grant the persons occupying them authority over workers. 
2.  Preparatory  or  supplementary  work  which  must  be  completed  before  the 
commencement or after the end of work. 
3.  Work that is intermittent by necessity. 
4.  Guards and janitors, excluding civil security guards. 
The Regulations shall specify the jobs listed under paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) of this 
Article and their maximum working hours. 
Chapter 4: Leaves 
Article 109  
1.  A worker shall be entitled to a prepaid annual leave of not less than 21 days, to be 
  32 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
increased to a period of not less than 30 days if the worker spends five consecutive 
years in the service of the employer.  
2.  A worker shall enjoy his leave in the year it is due. He may not forgo it or receive cash 
in lieu during his period of service. The employer may set the dates of such leaves 
according to work requirements or may grant them in rotation to ensure the smooth 
progress of work. The employer shall notify the worker of the date of his leave in 
sufficient time of not less than 30 days. 
Article 110  
1.  A worker may, with the employer’s approval, postpone his annual leave or days 
thereof to the following year. 
2.  An employer may postpone, for a period of not more than 90 days, the worker’s leave 
after the end of the year it is due if required by work conditions. If work conditions 
require extension of the postponement, the worker’s consent must be obtained in 
writing. Such postponement shall not, however, exceed the end of the year following 
the year the leave is due. 
Article 111  
A worker shall be entitled to a wage for the accrued days of the leave if he leaves the 
work without using such leave. This applies to the period of work for which he has not 
used his leave. He is also entitled to a leave pay for the parts of the year in proportion to 
the part he spent at work. 
Article 112  
Each worker shall be entitled to full-pay leave on Eids and occasions specified in the 
Regulations. 
Article 113  
Taking into account female workers’ leaves as provided for under this Law, a worker shall 
be entitled to a five-day leave with full pay in the event of the death of a spouse or an 
ascendant  or  descendant,  or  marriage,  and a  three-day  paid leave in  the  case of 
childbirth. In all cases, the employer shall have the right to request supporting documents. 
Article 114  
A worker shall be entitled to a paid leave of not less than 10 days and not more than 15 
days, including Eid Al-Adha holiday, to perform Hajj only once during his service if he has 
  33 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
not performed it before. To be eligible for this leave, the worker must have spent at least 
two consecutive years of service with the employer. The employer may determine the 
number of workers who shall be given this leave annually in accordance with work 
requirements. 
Article 115 
1.  If an employer approves of a worker’s enrollment or continuance in an educational 
institution, he shall have the right to a leave with full pay to sit for an examination for 
an unrepeated year, the duration of which shall be based on the actual number of 
examination days. If the examination is for a repeat year, the worker shall have the 
right to a leave without pay based on the number of actual examination days. Without 
prejudice to the employer’s right to disciplinary action, the worker shall be denied the 
wage if it is established that he did not sit for the examination. 
2.  If a worker does not obtain the employer’s approval on his enrollment in an educational 
institution, the worker shall be entitled to a leave to sit for the examination based on 
the actual number of examination days which shall be considered part of his annual 
leave, if available. If this is not possible, the worker shall be entitled to a leave without 
pay for the actual number of examination days. 
3.  The worker shall apply for the leave at least 15 days in advance. 
4.  The employer may require the worker to submit documents supporting the leave 
application, as well as proof of having taken the examination. 
Article 116  
A worker, subject to the employer’s approval, may obtain an unpaid leave for a duration 
to be agreed upon by the two parties. The  employment contract shall be deemed 
suspended for the duration of the leave in excess of 20 days, unless both parties agree 
otherwise. 
Article 117  
A worker whose illness has been proven shall be eligible for a paid sick leave for the first 
30 days, three quarters of the wage for the next 60 days, and without pay for the following 
30 days, during a single year, whether such leaves are continuous or intermittent. A single 
year shall mean the year which begins from the date of the first sick leave. 
Article 118  
A worker may not work for another employer, while enjoying any of the leaves provided 
  34 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
for in this Chapter. If the employer proves that the worker has violated this provision, he 
may deprive him of his wages for the duration of the leave or recover any wages 
previously paid to him. 
PART 7: Part-time Work 
Article 119  
Full-time workers who are affected by a collective temporary reduction in their normal 
working hours for economic, technical, or structural reasons shall not be considered part-
time workers. 
Article 120  
The Minister shall issue the necessary rules and controls for organizing part-time work, 
indicating therein the obligations of part-time workers and employers. To the exclusion of 
the protection extended to similar full-time workers in terms of occupational health and 
safety  and  work  injuries,  the  provisions  of  this  Law  shall  apply  only  to  the  extent 
determined by the Minister. 
PART 8: Protection Against Occupational Hazards, Major Industrial Accidents and 
WORK Injuries, and Health and Social Services 
Chapter 1: Protection Against Occupational Hazards 
Article 121  
An employer shall maintain the firm in a clean and hygienic condition. He shall provide 
lighting, supply potable and washing water, and comply with other rules, measures, and 
standards of occupational protection, health, and safety in accordance with what is 
specified in the Minister’s decision. 
Article 122  
An employer shall take the necessary precautions to protect workers against hazards, 
occupational diseases, and the machinery in use, and shall ensure work safety and 
protection. He shall post in a visible place in the firm the instructions related to work and 
  35 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
workers’ safety in Arabic and, when necessary, in any other language the workers 
understand. The employer may not charge the workers or deduct from their wages any 
amounts for the provision of such protection. 
Article 123  
An employer shall inform the worker, prior to engaging in the work, of the hazards of his 
job and said employer shall require him to use the prescribed protective equipment. The 
employer shall supply workers with the appropriate personal protective gear and train 
them on its use.  
Article 124  
A worker shall use and preserve the personal protective equipment designated for each 
process and shall adhere to the instructions established to protect his health against 
injuries and diseases. He shall refrain from any action or omission that may lead to failure 
to implement the instructions, or misuse or impairment of the devices provided to protect 
the workplace as well as the health and safety of fellow workers.  
Article 125  
An employer shall take necessary precautions for protection against fire and provide the 
technical means to combat it, including safety exits which shall be maintained in working 
condition  at  all  times.  He  shall  post  in  a  visible location  in  the workplace detailed 
instructions for fire prevention devices. 
Article 126  
An employer shall be responsible for emergencies and accidents which may affect 
persons, other than his workers, who enter the workplace by virtue of their official duties 
or with the approval of the employer or his agents, if such emergencies and accidents are 
due to negligence in taking the technical precautions required by the nature of his work, 
and he shall compensate them for damage and harm they may sustain in accordance 
with the general laws. 
Chapter 2: Protection Against Major Industrial Accidents 
Article 127  
The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to high risk firms. 
  36 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 128  
1.  The term “high risk firm” shall mean a firm which produces, prepares, disposes of, 
handles, uses, or stores, on a permanent or temporary basis, one or more hazardous 
substances, or categories of these substances, in quantities that exceed permissible 
limits the exceeding of which results in listing the firm among the high risk firms. 
2.  The term “hazardous substance” shall mean any substance or mixture of substances 
that constitutes a hazard on account of its chemical, physical, or toxic properties either 
alone or in combination with other substances. 
3.  The term “major accident” shall mean any sudden occurrence, such as a major leak, 
fire, or explosion in the course of an activity within a high risk firm and which involves 
one or more hazardous substances posing a great immediate or potential danger to 
the workers, the public, or the environment. 
Article 129  
The Ministry shall establish controls to identify high risk firms according to the list of 
hazardous substances, their categories, or both. 
Article 130  
Employers shall coordinate with the Ministry to determine the status of their firms on the 
basis of the controls referred to in Article 129 of this Law. 
Article 131  
The  Minister  shall  issue  the  regulations  and  decisions  that  include  the  necessary 
arrangements  at  firm  level  for  protection  against  major  hazards,  related  duties  of 
employers, arrangements for protecting the public and the environment outside the site 
of each high risk firm, worker’s rights and duties, and other measures necessary to 
prevent major accidents, minimize the risks of their occurrence, and mitigate their impacts 
Chapter 3: Work Injuries 
Article 132  
The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to the firms subject to the Occupational 
Hazards Branch of the Social Insurance Law. 
  37 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 133  
If a worker sustains a work injury or an occupational disease, the employer shall be 
required to treat him and assume, directly or indirectly, all necessary expenses, including 
hospitalization,  medical  examinations  and  tests,  radiology,  prosthetic  devices,  and 
transportation expenses to treatment centers. 
Article 134  
An injury shall be deemed a work injury in accordance with the provisions of the Social 
Insurance Law. Occupational diseases shall also be considered work injuries and the 
date of the first medical diagnosis of the disease shall be treated tantamount to the date 
of injury. 
Article 135  
Any relapse or complication arising from an injury shall be deemed an injury and shall be 
treated as such in terms of aid and treatment. 
Article 136  
Occupational  diseases  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  Occupational 
Diseases Schedule provided for in the Social Insurance Law. Degree of total or partial 
disability shall be determined according to the Disability Percentage Guide provided for 
in said law. 
Article 137  
In the case of temporary disability arising from a work injury, the injured party shall be 
entitled to financial aid equal to his full wage for 60 days, then 75% of the wage for the 
entire duration of his treatment. If one year elapses, or it is medically determined that the 
injured party’s chances of recovery are improbable or that he is not physically fit to work, 
his injury shall be deemed a total disability. In this case, the contract shall be terminated 
and the worker shall be compensated for the injury. The employer shall not be entitled to 
recover payments made to the injured worker during that year. 
Article 138  
If an injury results in a permanent total disability or the death of the injured person, the 
injured person or his eligible beneficiaries shall be entitled to a compensation equal to his 
wages for three years, with a minimum of 54,000 riyals. If the injury results in a permanent 
partial disability, the injured person shall be entitled to a compensation equal to the 
  38 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
percentage  of  the  estimated  disability  in  accordance  with  the  approved  Disability 
Percentage Guide schedule multiplied by the amount of compensation for permanent total 
disability. 
Article 139  
An employer shall not be required to comply with the provisions of Articles 133, 137, and 
138 of this Law if any of the following is established: 
1.  If a worker deliberately injures himself. 
2.  If an injury is caused by intentional misconduct on the part of the worker. 
3.  If a worker refuses to be examined by a physician or refuses to accept treatment by 
the physician designated by the employer without a valid reason. 
Article 140  
Liability of previous employers of a worker suffering from an occupational disease shall 
be  determined  in  light  of  the  medical  report  of  the  attending  physician.  Previous 
employers shall be required to pay the compensation provided for in Article 138 of this 
Law, each in proportion to the period said worker spent in his service, provided that the 
industries or occupations they engage in cause the disease the worker suffers from. 
Article 141  
Procedures for reporting work injuries shall be determined pursuant to a decision by the 
Minister. 
Chapter 4: Medical and Social Services 
Article 142  
An employer shall make available one or more medical aid cabinets, supplied with drugs 
and other necessities required for first aid.  
The Regulations shall specify the contents of such cabinets of first aid means, and the 
number of such means and quantities of drugs, and shall also regulate the method of 
keeping them and the conditions and requirements to be met by first aid providers. 
Article 143  
An employer shall assign one or more physicians to provide, at least once a year, a 
  39 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
comprehensive medical examination for his workers who are exposed to any of the 
occupational diseases listed in the Schedules of Occupational Diseases provided for in 
the Social Insurance Law. The findings of the examination shall be kept in the employer’s 
records as well as the workers’ files. 
Article 144  
An employer shall provide his workers with preventive and therapeutic health care in 
accordance  with  the  standards  set  forth  by  the  Minister,  taking  into  consideration 
whatever is provided for by the Cooperative Health Insurance Law. 
Article 145  
An employer may, subject to the Minister’s approval, set up a savings and thrift fund, 
provided that the workers’ contribution thereto is optional. The provisions regulating the 
operation of such funds shall be made public. 
Article 146  
An employer shall provide at his own expense all or some of the following, as may be 
determined by the Minister, for those who work in remote locations:  
1.  Stores for selling food, clothing, and other necessities at moderate prices in places 
where such stores are not available. 
2.  Suitable recreational and educational services and sports facilities annexed to the 
workplace. 
3.  Necessary  medical  arrangements  to  protect  the  workers’  health  and  provide 
comprehensive treatment for their families (Family shall mean the worker’s spouse, 
and the children and parents residing with him). 
4.  Schools for the workers’ children in the absence of sufficient schools in the area. 
5.  Mosques or prayer areas at the workplace. 
6.  Literacy programs for the workers. 
The Regulations shall specify remote locations. 
Article 147  
An employer operating in remote locations, mines, quarries, and oil exploration centers 
shall provide his workers with accommodation, camps, and meals. 
The  Minister  shall  determine,  pursuant  to  a  decision  by  him,  the  conditions  and 
  40 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
specifications  of  the  accommodation  and  camps  as  well  as  the  charges  for  the 
accommodation, the number of meals, quantities and kinds of food and related conditions, 
cost of meals to the worker, and any other requirements necessary for the workers’ health. 
Article 148  
An  employer  shall  provide  means  for  transporting  his  workers  from  their  place  of 
residence or from a certain gathering point to the places of work and bringing them back 
daily, if the places of work are not served by regular means of transportation at times 
compatible with the working hours. 
PART 9: Employment of Women 
Article 149  
It is prohibited to employ women in hazardous or dangerous professions and jobs. The 
Minister, pursuant to a decision by him, shall determine the professions and jobs that are 
deemed dangerous or hazardous and are likely to expose women to specific risks or 
harm. In such cases, women’s employment shall be prohibited or subject to certain 
restrictions. 
Article 150  
Women may not work during a period of night the duration of which is not less than 11 
consecutive hours, except in cases determined pursuant to a decision by the Minister. 
Article 151  
1.  Female workers shall be entitled to fully paid maternity leave for a period of 10 weeks 
to be divided at the female worker’s discretion. Such period may start four weeks prior 
to the expected date of delivery. Expected date of delivery shall be determined 
pursuant to a medical report certified by a health authority. 
2.  A woman may not, under any circumstances, work during the six weeks immediately 
following delivery. She shall be entitled to extend the leave for an additional two 
months as unpaid leave. 
3.  In the event of giving birth to a sick child or a child with special needs whose health 
condition requires a constant companion, a female worker shall be entitled to a one-
month leave with full pay starting at the end of the maternity leave and she shall be 
entitled to extend the leave for an additional month as unpaid leave. 
  41 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 152  
Repealed 
Article 153 
An  employer  shall  provide  medical  care  for  female  workers  during  pregnancy  and 
delivery. 
Article 154  
When a female worker returns to work following a maternity leave, she shall be entitled, 
in addition to the rest periods granted to all workers, to a rest period or periods not 
exceeding in aggregate one hour a day for nursing her infant. Such period or periods shall 
be calculated as part of the actual working hours and shall not entail any reduction in 
wage. 
Article 155  
An employer may not terminate the employment of a female worker or give her a warning 
of the same during her pregnancy or while she is on maternity leave. This shall include 
the period she is ill as a result of either of them, provided that her illness is documented 
pursuant to an official medical report, and that her absence does not exceed 180 days a 
year whether separately or consecutively. 
Article 156  
Repealed 
Article 157  
A female worker shall forfeit her entitlements under the provisions of this Part if she works 
for another employer during her authorized leave. In this case, the original employer may 
deprive her of her wage for the duration of the leave or recover any payments made to 
her. 
Article 158  
In all occupations and places where women are employed, the employer shall provide 
them with seats for resting. 
  42 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 159  
1.  An employer who employs 50 female workers or more shall provide them with a 
suitable place with an adequate number of babysitters to look after the female workers’ 
children under the age of six years, if the number of children reaches 10 or more. 
2.  The Minister may require an employer who employs 100 women or more in a single 
city to set up a nursery, either on his own or in conjunction with other employers in the 
same city, or alternatively, to contract with an existing nursery to care for the children 
of the female workers who are under six years of age during work periods. In such 
case, the Minister shall set forth the terms and conditions regulating such facilities as 
well as the charges imposed on the female workers benefiting from this service. 
Article 160  
1.  A Muslim female worker whose husband dies shall be entitled to ‘iddah leave’ with full 
pay for a period of not less than four months and 10 days starting from date of death. 
If she is pregnant, such leave may be extended without pay until her delivery. She 
may not, following childbirth, use the remainder of the leave granted to her under this 
Law. 
2.  A non-Muslim female worker whose husband dies shall be entitled to a fifteen-day 
leave with full pay. 
In all cases, a female worker whose husband dies may not work for others during the 
leave period. 
The  employer  shall  have  the  right  to  request  supporting  documents  in  the 
abovementioned cases. 
PART 10: Employment of Minors 
Article 161  
Minors may not be employed in hazardous jobs or harmful industries, or in occupations 
or jobs that may endanger their health, safety, or morals due to the nature or conditions 
of the same. The Minister shall specify such jobs, industries, and occupations pursuant 
to a decision issued by him. 
Article 162  
1.  Any person under the age of 15 years may not be employed or allowed to enter places 
  43 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
of work. The Minister may, pursuant to a decision by him, raise this age limit in certain 
industries or areas or for certain categories of minors. 
2.  As an exception to paragraph (1) of this Article, the Minister may allow the employment 
or work of persons between 13 and 15 years of age in light works, subject to the 
following conditions: 
2.1 Such jobs shall not be potentially harmful to their health or growth. 
2.2 Such  jobs  shall  not  hinder  their  school  attendance  or  their  participation  in 
orientation or vocational training programs, or impair their ability to benefit from 
their schooling.  
Article 163  
Minors may not work during a period of night the duration of which is not less than 12 
consecutive hours, except in cases determined pursuant to a decision by the Minister. 
Article 164  
Minors may not be made to perform actual work for more than six hours a day for all 
months except for the month of Ramadhan when the actual working hours shall not 
exceed four hours. Working hours shall be organized so that a minor does not work for 
more than four consecutive hours without one or more periods, each not less than half an 
hour, for rest, food, and prayers, provided that the minor does not remain at the workplace 
for more than seven hours. 
Minors may not be made to work during weekly rest days, Eids, official holidays, or annual 
vacations, nor shall they be subject to the exceptions provided for in Article 106 of this 
Law. 
Article 165  
Prior to employing a minor, the employer shall obtain from him the following documents: 
1.  The national identification card or an official birth certificate. 
2.  A report of physical fitness for the required job issued by a competent physician and 
duly certified by a health authority. 
3.  The consent of the minor’s guardian. 
Said documents shall be kept in the minor’s personal file. 
Article 166  
An employer shall notify the competent labor office of the employment of each minor 
  44 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
within the first week of such employment, and shall keep at the workplace a register for 
employed minors, showing the name of the minor, his age, the full name of his guardian, 
his place of residence, and the date of his employment. 
Article 167  
The provisions provided for in this Part shall not apply to work undertaken by children and 
minors in schools for general, vocational, or technical education, and in other training 
institutions, nor shall they apply to work undertaken in firms by persons who are at least 
14 years of age if such work is performed in accordance with the conditions set forth by 
the Minister and the work constitutes an essential part of the following: 
1.  An educational or training course the primary responsibility for which lies with a school 
or training institution. 
2.  A training program all or the major part of which is implemented in a firm if approved 
by the competent authority. 
3.  An orientation program aimed at facilitating the selection of the career or type of 
training. 
PART 11: Marine Employment Contract 
Article 168  
In this Part, the following terms shall have the meanings assigned thereto, unless the 
context requires otherwise: 
Vessel: A floating craft registered in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, whose tonnage is not 
less than 500 tons. 
Vessel chandler: A natural person, or public or private firm for whose account the vessel 
is being rigged. 
Captain: A seaman qualified to command a vessel and assume responsibility for it. 
Seaman: A person working aboard a vessel on a marine employment contract. 
Marine employment contract: An employment contract for a wage concluded between the 
vessel's owner or chandler or the representative of either of them and a seaman to work 
on board said vessel. Such contract shall be subject to the provisions of this Law, unless 
they are in conflict with the provisions of this Part and the decisions issued hereunder. 
  45 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 169  
All persons working on a vessel shall be subject to the authority and orders of its captain. 
Article 170  
All employment contracts of seamen working on a vessel shall be entered in the vessel’s 
records or appended thereto. Such contracts shall be drafted in clear language, and shall 
indicate whether they are made for a specific period or for a single voyage. If the contract 
is made for a specific period, this period shall be clearly specified. If it is made for a single 
voyage, it shall specify the city or harbor where the voyage ends, and at what stage of 
unloading or loading the vessel at this harbor the contract terminates. 
Article 171  
A marine employment contract shall provide for the date and place of its conclusion, name 
of the chandler, name of the seaman, his surname, age, nationality, and homeland, as 
well as the type of assigned work, method of performance, certification for work in sea 
navigation, personal marine card, wage, and the duration of the contract. If the contract 
is for a single voyage, it shall specify the city or harbor where the voyage ends and at 
what stage during the unloading or loading of the vessel at the harbor the work ends, and 
other details of the contract.  
Such contract shall be made out in three copies, one copy for the vessel’s chandler, one 
for the captain, to be kept on board the vessel, and a copy for the seaman. 
Article 172  
Work terms and rules aboard the vessel shall be posted in the crew’s quarters. These 
terms and rules shall include the following: 
1.  Seamen’s obligations and duties, organization rules for work aboard the vessel, 
service timetables, and daily working hours.  
2.  Obligations of the vessel’s chandler towards the seamen in respect of fixed wages, 
rewards, and other types of wage. 
3.  Methods of suspending payment of wages and deductions therefrom and methods of 
advance payments. 
4.  Place and time of settlement of wages as well as the final calculation thereof. 
5.  Rules and ways for the provision of food and accommodation aboard the vessel. 
6.  Treatment of seamen’s illnesses and injuries. 
  46 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
7.  Conduct of seamen and the conditions for their repatriation. 
8.  Seamen’s paid annual leaves. 
9.  End-of-service award and other indemnities payable upon termination or expiration of 
the employment contract. 
Article 173  
A seaman shall satisfy the following: 
1.  He shall have completed 18 years of age. 
2.  He shall hold a certificate allowing him to work in marine service. 
3.  He shall be physically fit. 
Article 174  
All the seaman’s entitlements shall be paid in the official currency. They may be paid in 
foreign currency if they become due while the vessel is outside territorial waters, subject 
to the seaman's approval.  
The  seaman  may ask  the employer  to  pay his  due  monetary  wage  to  the  person 
designated by him. 
Article 175  
If the voyage is cut short for any reason, voluntarily or forcibly, this shall not entail a 
reduction of the wage of the seaman employed on a marine employment contract for a 
single voyage. 
Article 176  
If the wage is set as a share of the profits or the proceeds of the vessel's charter, the 
seaman shall not be entitled to compensation if the voyage is cancelled nor to a wage 
increase if the voyage is delayed or extended. If the delay or extension is due to the action 
of the shippers, the seaman shall be entitled to compensation from the chandler. 
Article 177  
A seaman shall be eligible for pay, through the day of occurrence, if the ship is captured, 
sinks, or becomes unseaworthy. 
  47 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 178  
Seamen shall be provided with food and accommodation at the expense of the vessel 
chandler. This shall be regulated by a decision issued by the Minister. 
Article 179  
Working hours aboard the vessel while on high seas shall not exceed 14 hours in a 24-
hour period and not more than 72 hours in a seven-day period.  
Article 180  
A seaman who contributes to aiding or rescuing another vessel is eligible to a share of 
the reward that the vessel on which he works is entitled to, regardless of the type of wage 
of the work performed. 
Article 181  
If a seaman dies during the voyage, his heirs shall be eligible to receive his wages through 
the date of his death, if the wage is on a monthly basis. If the wage is on a voyage basis, 
the heirs shall be entitled to the full wage of the voyage , and if the wage is a share of the 
profits, it shall be fully payable. The dues of the deceased or missing seaman, or who is 
unable to collect his wage shall be deposited with the labor office at the port of destination 
in the Kingdom. 
Article 182  
An employer may terminate the contract without prior notice and without compensation in 
the following cases: 
1.  If the vessel sinks, is confiscated, goes missing, or becomes unseaworthy; or 
2.  If the voyage is cancelled at the outset, for reasons beyond the chandler’s control and 
the wage is on the basis of a single voyage, unless the contract provides otherwise. 
Article 183  
If the contract expires or is revoked, the employer shall be obligated to: 
1.  return the seaman to the port of departure at the commencement of the contract; and 
2.  provide him with food and accommodation until he reaches that port. 
  48 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 184  
A chandler shall return the seaman to his country in the following cases: 
1.  If the chandler cancels the voyage after the vessel sails off. 
2.  If the voyage is cancelled after the vessel sails off on account of prohibition of trading 
with the destination. 
3.  If the seaman is removed from the vessel due to illness, injury, or disability. 
4.  If the vessel is sold in a foreign country. 
5.  If the seaman is dismissed from service during the voyage without a legitimate 
justification. 
6.  If the contract concluded with the seaman expires at a port other than the one provided 
for in the contract. 
PART 12: Working in Mines and Quarries  
Article 185  
Working in mines and quarries shall mean the following: 
1.  Operations involving prospecting, detecting, extracting, or manufacturing (solid or 
liquid) mineral substances, including precious stones, in the area for which the license 
was issued. 
2.  Operations involving extracting, concentrating, or manufacturing mineral sediments 
on the surface or under the ground in the area of the license. 
3.  Construction works and the installation of structures and equipment related to the 
operations referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this Article. 
Article 186  
No person under the age of 18 or any woman regardless of her age shall be employed in 
a mine or quarry. 
Article 187  
No person shall be allowed to engage in operations subject to the provisions of this Part 
until he undergoes a complete medical examination and is proven to be physically fit for 
the required work. Such examination shall be repeated periodically. The worker may not 
  49 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
be required to bear the costs of necessary medical examinations. The Minister shall set 
forth, pursuant to a decision by him, the terms, conditions, and periods that must be 
complied with. 
Article 188  
The actual working hours spent by the worker underground shall not exceed seven hours 
a day. No worker shall be kept at the workplace, above or below the ground, for more 
than 10 hours a day. If the work is conducted underground, such a period shall include 
the time needed for the worker to reach underground and the time needed to return to 
the surface. 
Article 189  
Access to the work location and facilities shall be restricted to workers therein, persons 
authorized to inspect the mine or quarry, and persons holding special permits from the 
competent authority. 
Article 190  
An employer shall keep a record to register and count the workers before they enter the 
workplace and as they exit therefrom. 
Article 191  
An employer or the manager in-charge shall draft a list of orders and instructions related 
to public safety. 
Article 192  
An employer shall establish a rescue point in the vicinity of the workplace, equipped with 
necessary rescue and first aid equipment. Said point shall be equipped with suitable 
means of communication for immediate access, and the employer shall appoint a trained 
technician to supervise rescue and first aid operations. 
Article 193  
Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 142 of this Law, the employer of each mine 
or quarry with at least 50 workers shall set up a suitable location with a room equipped 
with rescue and first aid equipment, another room for nursing, and one or more locker 
rooms. As for quarries and mines with less than 50 workers and which are located within 
a twenty-kilometer radius of each other, employers may pool their resources to establish 
  50 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
a place of rescue and first aid in between such quarries and mines, or else establish their 
own places of rescue and first aid.  
The Minister may determine the rescue and first aid equipment and the protection and 
prevention measures in mines and quarries as well as employers’ responsibilities and 
workers’ rights and duties. 
PART 13: Work Inspection 
Article 194  
Work inspection shall be carried out by inspectors appointed from among the Ministry’s 
staff or other Saudis pursuant to a decision by the Minister or his designee. They shall 
have the powers provided for in this Law. 
Article 195  
In addition to the general conditions for appointing employees, a work inspector shall 
satisfy the following requirements when performing his duties: 
1.  Total impartiality. 
2.  Absence of any direct or indirect relation with the firms he inspects. 
3.  Passing a conduct examination following completion of a training period of at least 90 
days. 
Article 196  
Work inspectors shall have the following powers: 
1.  Monitor implementation of the provisions of this Law, its Implementing Regulations, 
and the decisions issued in implementation thereof. 
2.  Provide employers and workers with technical information and instructions that enable 
them to follow the best methods for implementing the provisions of this Law. 
3.  Report to the competent authorities the shortcomings of existing provisions, and 
submit relevant proposals. 
4.  Report violations of the provisions of this Law, its Regulations, and the decisions 
issued in implementation thereof. 
5.  Investigate violations which have been detected by other competent government 
agencies and referred to the Ministry.  
  51 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
6.  Propose appropriate fines in accordance with the Violations and Penalties Table. 
Article 197  
Before assuming their duties, inspectors shall sign a pledge form prepared by the 
Ministry, affirming their commitment to carry out their duties with honesty and dedication, 
and not to disclose the secrets of any industrial invention or any other secrets which they 
may become privy to in the course of performing their duties. An inspector shall carry an 
inspector identification card issued by the Ministry. 
Article 198  
Work inspectors shall have the right to: 
1.  Access any firm that is subject to the provisions of the Labor Law at any time, day or 
night, without prior notice. 
2.  Perform  any  examination  or  investigation  required  to  ascertain  the  proper 
implementation of the Law. They may in particular: 
a)  Question the employer, his representative, or the workers in private or in the 
presence of witnesses about any matter relating to the implementation of the 
provisions of the Law. 
b)  Review all books, records, and other documents that must be kept pursuant to the 
provisions of this Law and relevant decisions, and obtain any copies or extracts 
therefrom. 
c)  Take sample(s) of the materials used or handled in industrial and other operations 
subject to inspection and believed to have a harmful effect on the health or safety 
of workers, for the purpose of analyzing such samples in government laboratories 
to  determine  the  extent  of  such  effect,  and  duly  notify  the  employer  or  his 
representative of the same. 
Article 199  
Employers and their agents shall facilitate for the inspectors and officials entrusted with 
work inspection the performance of their duties. They shall provide them with the required 
data relevant to the nature of their work, respond to requests to appear before them, and 
dispatch a representative when asked. 
Article 200  
A person conducting inspection shall notify the employer or his representative of his visit 
  52 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
except where he believes that the task for which the inspection is being made requires 
otherwise. 
Article 201  
A work inspector may instruct employers to amend the rules for operating their equipment 
and machinery at deadlines he specifies, to ensure compliance with the provisions 
pertaining to workers’ health and safety. In the event of a hazard threatening the workers’ 
health  and  safety,  the  inspector  may  request  the  immediate  implementation  of  the 
measures he deems necessary to prevent such hazard. 
Article 202  
A work inspector shall treat with absolute secrecy the complaints he receives regarding 
any shortage in equipment or any violation of the provisions of the Law, and he shall not 
disclose to the employer or his representative the existence of such complaints. 
Article 203  
If, during inspection, the inspector discovers the presence of a violation of the provisions 
of this Law, the Regulations, or the decisions issued in implementation thereof, he shall 
record the violation in accordance with the provisions provided for in the Implementing 
Regulations for inspection and submit the violation report to the Minister for a decision. 
Article 204  
Whenever  the  need  arises,  physicians,  engineers,  chemists,  and  specialists  in 
occupational health and safety shall participate in the inspection. If necessary, the director 
of the labor office and inspectors may request the competent executive bodies to extend 
the required assistance. 
Article 205  
The work inspection chief at the labor office shall prepare a monthly report on work 
inspection activities, the aspects of inspection, inspected firms, the number and type of 
violations committed, and the actions taken with respect thereto. He shall also prepare 
an annual report on the inspection undertaken within the jurisdiction of the labor office, 
and its findings and effects, and he shall include therein his comments and proposals. 
Copies of both reports shall be submitted to the Ministry. 
  53 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 206  
The Deputy Minister for Labor Affairs shall prepare, within a period not exceeding 180 
days from the end of the year, a comprehensive annual report on work inspection in the 
Kingdom,  addressing  all  matters  relating  to  the  Ministry’s  monitoring  of  the 
implementation of the provisions of the Labor Law. In particular, the report shall include 
the following: 
1.  A statement of the provisions regulating inspection. 
2.  A list of the officials in charge of inspection. 
3.  Statistics on the firms subject to inspection and the number of workers therein. 
4.  Statistics on inspectors’ visits and inspections. 
5.  Statistics on the violations committed and the penalties imposed. 
6.  Statistics on work injuries. 
7.  Statistics on occupational diseases. 
Article 207  
The Ministry shall prepare forms for recording violations, inspection records, notices, and 
warnings, and shall establish the provisions necessary for the filing and use of such forms 
and for their distribution to labor offices. 
Article 208  
Training courses shall be organized for work inspectors, and shall in particular include the 
following: 
1.  Principles for organizing inspection visits and communicating with employers and 
workers. 
2.  Principles  for  auditing  books,  records,  and  computers,  as  well  as  principles  for 
organizing inspection reports and interrogating persons. 
3.  Principles for guiding employers on the requirements of statutory provisions and the 
benefits of their application, and assisting them in such application. 
4.  Fundamental principles of industrial technology and the means of protection against 
work injuries and occupational diseases. 
5.  Fundamental  principles  of  production  efficiency  and  its  relevance  to  providing 
conditions conducive to a proper work environment. 
  54 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 209  
The Council of Ministers shall issue the Implementing Regulations needed to regulate 
and organize inspection activities as provided for in this Part. 
PART 14: Commissions for Settlement of Labor Disputes 
Repealed 
Article 210  
Repealed 
Article 211  
Repealed 
Article 212  
Repealed 
Article 213  
Repealed 
Article 214  
Repealed 
Article 215  
Repealed 
Article 216  
Repealed 
Article 217  
Repealed 
  55 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 218  
Repealed 
Article 219  
Repealed 
Article 220  
Repealed 
Article 221  
Repealed 
Article 222  
Repealed 
Article 223  
Repealed 
Article 224  
Repealed 
Article 225  
Repealed 
Article 226  
Repealed 
Article 227  
Repealed 
Article 228  
Repealed 
  56 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
PART 15: Punishments  
Article 229  
1.  Without prejudice to any harsher penalty provided for in any other law, any person 
infringing upon any of the provisions of this Law, its Regulations, or the decisions 
issued in implementation thereof shall be subject to one or more of the following 
penalties: 
a)  A fine not exceeding 100,000 riyals. 
b)  Closure of the firm for a period not exceeding 30 days. 
c)  Permanent closure of the firm. 
2.  The penalty imposed on the violator may be doubled in the case of repetition. 
3.  Fines shall be multiplied by the number of persons subject of the violation. 
Article 230  
1.  The Ministry may, pursuant to a decision by the Minister or his designee, impose both 
or either of the two penalties provided for in subparagraphs (a) and (b) of paragraph 
(1) of Article 229 of this Law, provided that half of the maximum limit set for each of 
them is not exceeded. The penalty decision may be appealed before the competent 
administrative court. 
2.  Pursuant to a decision by the Minister, a table shall be issued listing violations and the 
corresponding penalties that do not exceed half of the maximum limit of the two 
penalties provided for in subparagraphs (a) and (b) of paragraph (1) of Article 229 of 
this Law, taking into account that the fine shall be commensurate with the gravity of 
the violation. 
3.  Pursuant to a decision by the Minister, a table shall be issued listing violations whose 
penalties exceed half of the  maximum limit of the two penalties provided for in 
subparagraphs (a) and (b) of paragraph (1) of Article 229 of this Law. Such table shall 
also list violations whose penalties are provided for in subparagraph (c) of paragraph 
(1) of Article 229. 
4.  If the violation warrants a penalty that exceeds half of the prescribed maximum limit, 
or if it warrants the permanent closure of the firm, in accordance with the table 
provided for in paragraph (3) of this Article, the Ministry shall file a suit before the 
competent court to review the case and impose the appropriate penalty provided for 
in Article 229 of this Law. 
  57 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
5.  The Ministry and the violator may agree to settle the violation by means of paying the 
fine assessed by the Ministry, provided that a decision to this effect is issued by the 
Minister. 
Article 231  
The violator is required to rectify the violation within a period specified by the Regulations. 
Otherwise, it shall be considered a new violation. 
Article 232  
Fines prescribed under this Law shall be collected in accordance with the procedures for 
collecting public funds. Collected amounts shall be deposited with the Human Resources 
Development Fund. 
Article 233  
The Minister may grant a financial reward of not more than 25% of the amount of the fine 
collected to inspectors and others who help in uncovering any of the violations of the 
provisions of this Law, its Regulations, and the decisions issued in implementation 
thereof. 
Article 234  
A.  Labor courts may not hear any claim arising from this Law or from an employment 
contract upon the lapse of 12 months from the date of termination of the employment 
relation  unless  the  claimant  provides  justification  acceptable  to  the  court  or  the 
defendant admits the right subject of the claim. 
B.  Labor suits shall be expeditiously heard. 
Article 235  
An employer may not, during the hearing of a suit before a labor court, alter employment 
conditions existing prior to the initiation of proceedings in a manner that undermines the 
interest of the worker in the suit.  
Article 236  
 Repealed 
  58 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
Article 237  
 Repealed 
Article 238  
 Repealed 
Article 239  
 Repealed 
Article 240  
 Repealed 
Article 241  
 Repealed 
Article 242  
 Repealed 
PART 16: Concluding Provisions 
Article 243  
The Minister shall issue, within 180 days from this Law’s entry into force, the decisions 
and regulations necessary for implementing the provisions thereof. The Implementing 
Regulations shall be published in the Official Gazette. 
Article 244  
This Law shall supersede the Labor and Workers’ Law promulgated by Royal Decree No. 
(M/21) dated 6/9/1389H and shall repeal all the provisions that are inconsistent therewith. 
Regulations and decisions issued prior to the effective date of this Law shall remain in 
effect until they are amended. 
Article 245  
This Law shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall enter into force 180 days 
  59 
 

NEW PAGE

Labor Law 
 
 
 
 
after the date of its publication. 
  60 
 

NEW PAGE
Law of Professional Companies 
 
Royal Decree No. M/17 
September 25, 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Translation of Saudi Laws 

NEW PAGE

Law of Professional Companies 
 
 
 
NOTE: 
The translation of Saudi laws takes the following into consideration: 
•  Words used in the singular form include the plural and vice versa.  
•  Words used in the masculine form include the feminine.  
•  Words used in the present tense include the present as well as the future.  
•  The word “person” or “persons” and their related pronouns (he, his, him, they, 
their, them) refer to a natural and legal person.  
 
   
  2 

NEW PAGE

Law of Professional Companies 
 
 
 
Law of Professional Companies 
Article 1 
In this Law, the following terms shall have the meanings assigned thereto, 
unless the context requires otherwise: 
Law: Law of Professional Companies. 
Regulations: Implementing Regulations of the Law. 
Ministry: Ministry of Commerce. 
Minister: Minister of Commerce. 
Article 2 
A  professional  company  is  a  civil  company  with  an  independent  legal 
personality incorporated by one person (or more) duly licensed to practice a 
single profession (or more), or by such licensees with others, for the purpose 
of practicing such professions. 
Article 3 
A professional company shall take any of the following corporate forms: 
a) Unlimited liability company. 
b) Joint-stock company. 
c) Limited partnership. 
d) Limited liability company. 
Article 4 
1. Where this Law is silent, a professional company shall be subject to the 
provisions of the Companies Law to the extent that they do not conflict with 
the nature of said company. 
2. A partner or shareholder in a professional company, regardless of its form, 
shall not acquire the capacity of a merchant as a result of his partnership or 
shareholding. 
Article 5 
1. Persons licensed to practice a single profession may together establish a 
professional company in any of the forms specified in Article 3 of this Law. 
2. A person licensed to practice a single profession may establish a one-person 
limited liability professional company to practice such profession. If such 
person is licensed to practice more than one profession, he may practice all 
or some of them through the company upon meeting all the terms and 
conditions prescribed by the Regulations. 
3. A professional company may be incorporated by persons licensed to practice 
more than one profession. A professional company may also be incorporated 
  3 

NEW PAGE

Law of Professional Companies 
 
 
 
between  a  non-Saudi  professional  company  and  persons  licensed  to 
practice  a  single  profession  or  more.  The  Regulations  shall  set  the 
requirements for the incorporation of these companies and for their activities. 
4. A legal person or a natural person not licensed to practice any of the 
profession(s)  of  the  professional  company  may  become  a  partner  or 
shareholder in such company, except in an unlimited liability company or a 
limited partnership with the capacity of a general partner. The Regulations 
shall set the relevant requirements and shall prescribe the general rules for 
managing  such  professional  company  in  a  manner  that  preserves  the 
independence of professional partners and shareholders in the practice of 
their professions. 
Article 6 
Partners  or  shareholders  in  a  professional  company  may  convert  such 
company into any of the company forms referred to in Article 3 of this Law upon 
fulfillment of the requirements stipulated in this Law or its Regulations. 
Article 7 
A  partner  or  shareholder  in  a  professional  company  who  practices  the 
profession may not be a partner or a shareholder in another professional 
company that practices the same profession.  
Article 8 
1. The  Ministry  shall  be  responsible  for  registering  the  incorporation  of 
professional  companies  in  accordance  with  the  procedures  and 
requirements stipulated in this Law or its Regulations, without prejudice to 
the provisions of the Foreign Investment Law. 
2. A professional company shall be entered into the Professional Companies 
Register at the Ministry. It may not acquire a legal personality or pursue its 
activities prior to its entry into the Register. The Regulations shall specify the 
registration provisions and procedures as well as the fees therefor. 
Article 9 
1. The  Regulations  shall indicate  the  manner of  publishing  the  articles  of 
incorporation and the articles of association of a professional company, and 
any amendment thereto, as well as any pledge or ownership change in its 
shares or stocks. 
2. The articles of incorporation and the articles of association of a professional 
company published in accordance with the provisions of this Law may not be 
invoked against a third party, except after entering the company into the 
Professional Companies Register. However, if one or more statements of 
said articles are not published, only the unpublished statements may not be 
invoked against a third party. 
3. Partners or shareholders in a professional company may not dissolve it prior 
to the end of its term, except after such dissolution is announced and all 
partners  dealing  therewith  are  notified  in  writing,  as  specified  in  the 
Regulations. 
  4 

NEW PAGE

Law of Professional Companies 
 
 
 
Article 10 
A  professional  company  may  not  render  its  professional  services  except 
through  its  licensed  partners  or  shareholders.  However,  it  may,  for  such 
purpose, engage other licensed professionals, provided they are supervised by 
the company and fall under its liability. 
Article 11 
1. A professional company shall only render the services for which it is licensed. 
2. A  professional  company  may  not  conduct  commercial  businesses  or 
participate  in  the  establishment  of  a  commercial  company  or  another 
professional company. However, it may acquire financial and real estate 
assets to serve its purposes in accordance with the Regulations. 
Article 12 
A professional company shall, in rendering its professional services, be subject 
to the supervision of the relevant agencies. The Regulations shall determine 
the scope of such supervision. 
Article 13 
1. A partner or shareholder in a professional company may not practice the 
profession except through said company, unless it is a one-person company. 
2. Notwithstanding paragraph (1) of this Article, a partner or shareholder may 
practice his profession separate from the company upon the partners’ written 
approval or the approval of the general assembly, as the case may be. 
3. If a partner or shareholder violates any of the provisions of paragraphs (1) 
and (2) of this Article, the company shall be entitled to the fees and other 
financial benefits he receives. 
Article 14 
1. A professional company may be named after one or more of its partners or 
shareholders, or may take an innovative name. In all cases, the company’s 
name shall be followed by an indication of its profession. The Regulations 
shall specify the criteria for naming professional companies. 
2. In the event of withdrawal or death of a partner or shareholder after whose 
name the professional company is named or whose name is part of the 
company’s name, the company may not continue to carry his name or use it 
as part of its name, except with his or his heirs’ written consent, as the case 
may be. 
Article 15 
1. Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph (2) of this Article and any of 
the relevant provisions of the Companies Law, a professional company shall 
be managed by one person or more, whether a partner or otherwise. If said 
company is managed by one person, then such person shall be a licensed 
partner. However, if managed by more than one person, the number of 
licensed  partners  shall  not  be  less  than  half,  or  as  determined  by  the 
  5 

NEW PAGE

Law of Professional Companies 
 
 
 
Regulations. The company's articles of incorporation shall determine the 
conditions  for  appointing  the  manager,  his  powers,  remuneration,  the 
duration  of  his  management  of  the  company,  and  the  manner  of  his 
dismissal. 
2. A professional joint-stock company shall be managed by a board of directors 
composed of a number of its shareholders or others, provided that at least 
half of the board members are licensed shareholders, or as determined by 
the Regulations. The company's articles of association shall determine the 
powers of the board and the provisions related to its formation. 
Article 16 
1. In a professional unlimited liability company, limited partnership, and limited 
liability  company  owned  by  more  than  one  person,  the  powers  of  the 
manager  shall  not  prejudice  the  right  of  the  partners  to  practice  their 
profession independently. 
2. The powers of the board of directors of a professional joint-stock company 
shall not prejudice the right of shareholders to practice their profession 
independently. 
Article 17 
1. With the exception of a professional one-person company, each partner or 
shareholder in a professional company shall be liable in his personal capacity 
for damages to the company, shareholders, or partners, as the case may be, 
as a result of his professional errors. 
2. A professional company shall be liable for damages sustained by others due 
to professional errors made by its partners or shareholders, as the case may 
be, or by its employees or affiliates. 
Article 18 
The manager or the board of directors, as the case may be, shall be liable for 
damages sustained by the company, or partners or shareholders, as the case 
may be, or by others, due to errors in management, violations of the provisions 
of the Law, Regulations, or other relevant laws, or violations of the provisions 
of the company’s articles of incorporation and articles of association. If the 
company has more than one manager, they shall be jointly liable. 
Article 19 
The Minister may, upon coordination with the relevant supervisory agencies 
and pursuant to his decision, require a professional company rendering certain 
services to obtain professional liability insurance to cover professional errors. 
Article 20 
1. If the license of a partner or a shareholder in a professional company is 
temporarily  suspended,  he  shall  immediately  cease  to  work  with  the 
company  until  his  license  is  restored.  If,  among  the  other  partners  or 
shareholders, he is the sole practitioner of the company’s profession or if he 
  6 

NEW PAGE

Law of Professional Companies 
 
 
 
is the sole owner of the professional company, the company shall cease to 
practice  such  profession  until  the  license  is  restored.  The  articles  of 
incorporation  and  articles  of  association,  as  the  case  may  be,  of  a 
professional company, other than a professional one-person company, shall 
specify the distribution of profits and losses in both cases. 
2. If the license of a partner or a shareholder in a professional company is 
revoked, he shall be deemed to have withdrawn from the company, unless 
the company’s articles of incorporation or articles of association, as the case 
may be, provides for his continuation in the company as an unlicensed 
partner, provided that the terms and conditions of Article 5(4) of this Law are 
met. 
3. If the license of a partner or a shareholder in a professional company is 
revoked and he is the sole practitioner of that profession from among the 
partners or shareholders, or if the professional company is a one-person 
company, or if the professional company loses the sole practitioner of a 
profession from among its partners or shareholders due to his death or 
disposal of his stake or shares, the company shall cease to practice that 
profession; in such case, it shall be accorded a six-month grace period to 
make the necessary changes to comply with the law. The Minister may 
extend such period for a similar duration. The company shall terminate if it 
fails to undertake the necessary changes within said period. 
Article 21 
1. In the event of the death of a partner in a professional limited liability 
company or a shareholder in a professional joint-stock company, his stake 
or shares, as the case may be, shall pass to his heirs, unless the company’s 
articles of incorporation or articles of association, as the case may be, 
stipulate otherwise. 
2. In the event of the death of a partner in a professional unlimited liability 
company, the partnership of the remaining partners shall continue, and the 
share of the deceased shall pass to his heirs; in such case, a certified 
appraiser  shall  determine  the  fair  value  of  each  partner's  share  in  the 
company on the date of the partner’s death. The heirs of the deceased 
partner shall also be entitled to any future gains arising from transactions 
conducted prior to his death. 
3. The articles of incorporation of a professional unlimited liability company or 
a special agreement between the heirs of the deceased partner and the 
remainder of the partners in the company may contain a provision stating 
that the heirs of the deceased partner shall replace the deceased partner as 
shareholders in the company by converting the company into a limited 
partnership, joint-stock company, or limited liability company. In the event 
the company is converted into a limited partnership, the heirs shall have the 
status of a dormant partner. 
4. In the event of the death of a partner in a professional limited partnership, 
his  stake  shall  pass  to  his  heirs,  unless  the  company's  articles  of 
incorporation  stipulate  otherwise.  If  the  heirs  become  partners  in  the 
company, they shall have the status of a dormant partner. 
  7 

NEW PAGE

Law of Professional Companies 
 
 
 
Article 22 
1. Stakes or shares transferred from the deceased partners or shareholders in 
a professional company to their heirs shall be subject to the rules set out in 
Article 5(4) of this Law. 
2. If any of  the heirs is licensed to practice the profession or any of the 
company's  professions,  such  heir  may  become  a  practicing  partner  or 
shareholder in the company if the majority of the partners agree or if he 
obtains the approval of the general assembly. If he fails to obtain such 
agreement, the heir shall be a non-practicing partner or shareholder; in such 
case, he may practice his own profession independent of the company, 
notwithstanding Article 13 of this Law. 
3. Notwithstanding Article 7 of this Law, if any of the heirs is a practicing partner 
or  shareholder  in  another  professional  company  practicing  the  same 
profession,  he  may  hold  in  the  capacity  of  a  non-practicing  partner  or 
shareholder any stakes or shares he inherits. 
Article 23 
The articles of incorporation of a professional unlimited liability company and a 
professional  limited  partnership  shall  determine  the  consequences  of 
interdicting a joint partner or initiating any liquidation procedure in accordance 
with the Bankruptcy Law. 
Article 24 
Without prejudice to a harsher penalty stipulated in any other law, a fine not 
exceeding 500,000 riyals shall be imposed on: 
1. any one-person company practicing more than one profession, in violation 
of the terms and conditions prescribed by the Regulations; 
2. any manager or member of the board of directors of a professional company 
who  violates  the  terms  and  conditions  of  incorporation  of  professional 
companies and the publication requirements prescribed by the Regulations; 
violates  the  rules  governing  the  rendition  of  services  of  professional 
companies as set out in Article 5(3) of this Law; or violates the general rules 
governing the management of professional companies referred to in Article 
5(4) of this Law; 
3. any  partner  or  shareholder  in  more  than  one  professional  company 
practicing the same profession, in violation of Article 7 of this Law; 
4. any manager or member of the board of directors of a professional company 
who violates Article 9(3) of this Law; 
5. any company which violates Articles 10, 11, or 14 of this Law; 
6. any company which practices a profession without obtaining a professional 
liability insurance if mandated pursuant to a decision by the Minister, in 
accordance with Article 19 of this Law; 
7. any person who violates Article 13 of this Law; and 
8. any  manager,  member  of  the  board  of  directors,  or  sole  partner  in  a 
professional company in the event that such company practices a profession 
without any of its partners or shareholders being licensed to practice such 
profession. 
  8 

NEW PAGE

Law of Professional Companies 
 
 
 
Article 25 
1. Pursuant  to  a  decision  by  the  Minister,  a  committee  shall  be  formed 
consisting of three or more members, including at least one specialist in law, 
to review violations of this Law and impose the penalty stipulated in Article 
24 of this Law. 
2. The committee’s work procedures and the remuneration of its chairman, 
members, and secretariat shall be determined pursuant to a decision issued 
by the Minister. 
3. Any person against whom a penalty decision is issued may appeal such 
decision before the Administrative Court. 
Article 26 
The maximum limit of the penalty provided for in Article 24 of this Law shall be 
doubled in case the same violation is repeated within three years from the date 
of issuance of the penalty decision. 
Article 27 
This Law shall supersede the Professional Companies Law, promulgated by 
Royal Decree No. (M/4), dated 18/2/1412H, and shall repeal any provisions 
conflicting therewith. 
Article 28 
The Minister shall issue the Regulations, upon coordination with the relevant 
agency, within 180 days from the date this Law is published in the Official 
Gazette. The Regulations shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall 
enter into force on the date the Law becomes effective. 
Article 29 
This Law shall come into force 180 days following the date of its publication in 
the Official Gazette. 
  9 

NEW PAGE
Law of The Council of Ministers
1414 H
Law of The Council of Ministers
General Provisions
Article 1
The Council of Ministers is a regulatory body presided over by the King.

Article 2
The city of Riyadh is the seat of the Council of Ministers. Meetings of the Council may be held in other locations in the Kingdom.

Article 3
A member of the Council of Ministers shall: a)    be a Saudi national by descent and upbringing; b)    be well known for being upright and competent; and c)    not have been convicted of a crime impinging on religion or honor.

Article 4
Members of the Council of Ministers may not assume their duties until they take the following oath: “I swear by Almighty Allah to be loyal to my religion, then to my King and my country. I swear not to reveal any of the State’s secrets, to protect its interests and laws, and to perform my duties with honesty, integrity, and sincerity.”

Article 5
Membership of the Council of Ministers may not be combined with any other government post, unless it is deemed necessary by the President of the Council of Ministers.

Article 6
A member of the Council of Ministers may not, while in office, buy or lease, directly or through a proxy, or by public auction, any of the properties of the State. He may not sell or rent any of his property to the government. Furthermore, he may not engage in any commercial or financial activities or accept board membership in any company.

Article 7
Meetings of the Council of Ministers are presided over by the President of the Council of Ministers (the King), or one of his deputies. The resolutions of the Council of Ministers shall become final upon the King’s approval.

Article 8
Members of the Council of Ministers shall be appointed, relieved from office, and have their resignations accepted by royal order. Their responsibilities shall be specified in accordance with Articles 57 and 58 of the Basic Law of Governance. The Internal Regulations of the Council shall stipulate their rights.

Article 9
The term of the Council of Ministers shall not exceed four years, during which a new Council shall be reconstituted by royal order. If the term expires before the reconstitution of the new Council, the current Council shall continue performing its duties until the new one is reconstituted.

Article 10
A minister shall be in charge of his ministry and shall be the final authority in managing its affairs and shall carry out his duties in accordance with the provisions of this Law and other laws and regulations.

Article 11
A.    Only a minister may act on behalf of another minister in the Council of Ministers, pursuant to an order issued by the President of the Council of Ministers.  B.    The powers of the absent minister shall be assumed by the acting minister.

Formation of the Council of Ministers
Article 12
The Council of Ministers shall be composed of the following: a)    President of the Council of Ministers; b)    Deputies of the President of the Council of Ministers; c)    Ministers with portfolios; d)    Ministers of State appointed as members of the Council of Ministers by royal order; and e)    Counselors to the King, who are appointed as members of the Council of Ministers by royal order.

Article 13
The right to attend meetings of the Council of Ministers shall be exclusive to its members and the Secretary General of the Council of Ministers. At the request of the President or a Council member and upon the approval of the President of the Council of Ministers, an official or expert may attend the meetings of the Council, in a non-voting capacity, to present information and clarifications.

Article 14
A meeting of the Council of Ministers shall not be valid unless attended by two-thirds of its members. Resolutions shall not be valid unless passed by a majority of the members present. In case of a tie, the President shall have the casting vote. In extraordinary cases, Council meetings may be considered valid with half of the members present. In such cases, resolutions shall not be considered valid without the approval of two-thirds of the members present. The President of the Council of Ministers shall determine such cases.

Article 15
The Council of Ministers shall not, unless deemed necessary, pass a resolution on a matter related to the activities of a ministry except in the presence of the minister concerned or his designee.

Article 16
Deliberations of the Council shall be confidential. As a general rule, its resolutions shall be made public, except when deemed classified pursuant to a resolution by the Council.

Article 17
Members of the Council of Ministers shall be tried for violations they commit in the discharge of their official duties, pursuant to a special law which states the violations and specifies the procedures for prosecution and trial as well as the formation of the tribunal.

Article 18
The Council of Ministers may form committees from among its members or from non-members to review an item on the agenda of the Council and prepare a special report thereon. The Internal Regulations of the Council shall specify the number of committees and procedures thereof.

Powers of the Council of Ministers
Article 19
Without prejudice to the Basic Law of Governance and the Law of the Shura Council, the Council of Ministers shall have the power to set the internal, foreign, financial, economic, educational, and defense policies as well as the general affairs of the State, and shall oversee their implementation; and it shall review Shura Council resolutions. It shall have the executive authority and be the final authority in the financial and administrative affairs of all ministries and other government agencies.

Legislative Affairs
Article 20
Laws, treaties, international agreements, and concessions shall be issued and amended by royal decrees upon review by the Council of Ministers, without prejudice to the Law of the Shura Council.

Article 21
The Council of Ministers shall review draft laws and regulations brought before it and vote on each article separately and then as a whole, in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Internal Regulations of the Council.

Article 22
Each minister shall have the right to propose a draft law or regulation related to the affairs of his ministry. Each member of the Council of Ministers shall have the right to propose issues of interest to be discussed by the Council upon the approval of the President of the Council of Ministers.

Article 23
All decrees shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall enter into force on the date of publication unless another date is stipulated.

Executive Affairs
Article 24
The Council, being the direct executive authority, shall have full power over all executive and administrative affairs. The following shall be included in its executive powers: 1.    monitoring the implementation of laws, regulations, and resolutions; 2.    establishing and organizing public institutions; 3.    overseeing the implementation of the general development plan; and 4.    forming committees to review the performance of ministries and other government agencies or in relation to any specific case. Such committees shall submit their findings at a time set by the Council. The Council shall review such findings and may accordingly form investigative committees to decide on such findings, in accordance with laws and regulations.   

Financial Affairs
Article 25
The government may not conclude a loan contract without the approval of the Council of Ministers and the issuance of a royal decree to that effect.

Article 26
The Council of Ministers shall review the State budget and vote on it, chapter by chapter. Such budget shall be promulgated by royal decree.

Article 27
Any supplement to the budget shall only be made by royal decree.

Article 28
The Minister of Finance and National Economy shall submit the closing account for the State’s ending fiscal year to the President of the Council of Ministers who shall refer it to the Council of Ministers for approval.

Presidency of Council of Ministers
Article 29
The King, as President of the Council of Ministers, shall direct the State’s public policy; ensure guidance, coordination, and cooperation among the various government agencies; ensure harmony, continuity, and unity in all functions of the Council of Ministers; supervise the Council of Ministers, ministries, and government agencies; and monitor the implementation of laws, regulations, and resolutions. All ministries and other government agencies shall submit to the President of the Council of Ministers within 90 days from the beginning of each fiscal year, a report on their achievements in light of the general development plan for the ending fiscal year. The report shall include the difficulties encountered and proposals to ensure the proper conduct of business. 

Administrative Structure of the Council of Ministers
Article 30
 

The administrative structure of the Council of Ministers shall be composed of the following agencies:
1.    The General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers.
2.    The Bureau of Experts.
The Internal Regulations of the Council of Ministers shall specify the administrative structure of its agencies as well as their respective powers and the manner of discharging their duties.
 

Law of the Profession of Accounting and Auditing 
 
Royal Decree No. M/59 
March 11, 2021 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Translation of Saudi Laws 

NEW PAGE

Law of the Profession of Accounting and Auditing 
 
 
 
NOTE: 
The translation of Saudi laws takes the following into consideration: 
•  Words used in the singular form include the plural and vice versa.  
•  Words used in the masculine form include the feminine.  
•  Words used in the present tense include the present as well as the future.  
•  The word “person” or “persons” and their related pronouns (he, his, him, they, 
their, them) refer to a natural and legal person.  
 
   
  2 

NEW PAGE

Law of the Profession of Accounting and Auditing 
 
 
 
Law of the Profession of Accounting and Auditing 
Article 1 
In this Law, the following terms shall have the meanings assigned thereto, 
unless the context requires otherwise: 
Law: Law of the Profession of Accounting and Auditing. 
Regulations: The implementing regulations of this Law. 
Ministry: Ministry of Commerce. 
Minister: Minister of Commerce. 
SOCPA: The Saudi Organization for Certified Public Accountants. 
Board: SOCPA board of directors. 
Profession: The profession of accounting and auditing. 
License: A document issued by the Ministry which permits its holder to practice 
the profession in accordance with the rules and conditions specified in this Law 
and its Regulations. 
Certified Public Accountant: A natural or legal person licensed to practice the 
profession. 
Committee: The committee which reviews administrative and ethical violations 
in accordance with the provisions of this Law. 
Article 2 
The profession may not be practiced without a license issued in accordance 
with the provisions of this Law. 
Article 3 
Conditions for granting a license shall be as follows: 
1. For a full-time professional, the applicant must:  
a) be a Saudi national; 
b) be competent; 
c) hold a bachelor's degree or a higher degree in accounting or any relevant 
specialty according to the standards specified by the Regulations; 
d) be a full member of SOCPA and have at least one year of relevant 
experience; and 
e) be of good character and not have been convicted in a hadd offense or 
any other offense impinging on honor or integrity, unless his record has 
been  expunged,  nor  dismissed  from  public  service  pursuant  to  a 
disciplinary decision, unless three years have lapsed from the date of the 
decision. 
2. For a part-time professional, a license may be granted according to the rules 
specified by the Regulations, taking the following into consideration: 
a) The conditions stipulated in paragraph (1) of this Article. 
  3 

NEW PAGE

Law of the Profession of Accounting and Auditing 
 
 
 
b) Setting a maximum period for practicing the profession on a part-time 
basis. 
c) Increasing the number of supervisory hours required of the licensee for 
each client and setting the maximum total hours per year. 
d) Refraining from providing audit services to high-risk companies. 
Article 4 
1. A license application shall be filed with SOCPA in accordance with the 
procedures specified by the Board. SOCPA shall, upon verifying completion 
of the conditions stipulated in Article 3 of this Law, submit to the Ministry its 
recommendations regarding the application within the period specified by the 
Regulations. 
2. The Ministry shall issue its decision on the license application within the 
period  specified  by  the  Regulations.  If  the  application  is  rejected,  the 
rejection shall be reasoned and the applicant may appeal the rejection 
decision before the administrative court. 
3. The Regulations shall specify the procedures for reviewing and deciding on 
the  application  and  shall  determine  the  license  fee,  term,  and  renewal 
conditions. 
Article 5 
Without prejudice to the penalties stipulated in Article 10 of this Law, the 
Ministry may revoke the license upon a recommendation by SOCPA. A licensee 
whose license is revoked may appeal such action before the administrative 
court. Revocation of the license shall not result in the cancellation of his SOCPA 
membership. 
Article 6 
A certified public accountant must have a main office to practice the profession 
and he may open branches. He must notify SOCPA of the address of his main 
office and the address of his branches, if any, and of any change thereto within 
a period not exceeding 14 days from the date of the change. All notices served 
to the main address registered with SOCPA shall be deemed valid.  
Article 7 
A certified public accountant shall: 
1. sign and certify reports he issues; however, if the report is issued by a 
professional company, the report shall be signed and certified by the partner 
who participates in or supervises the preparation of the report; 
2. use his personal name as the name of his main office; he may, however, use 
any other name, provided that it is coupled with his personal name. Any 
correspondence, documents, reports, or statements issued by him must 
include his personal name and license number. He shall also display his 
license in a conspicuous place in his office; 
3. provide SOCPA with necessary information on his activity, in accordance 
with the Regulations; 
  4 

NEW PAGE

Law of the Profession of Accounting and Auditing 
 
 
 
4. comply with the profession’s rules, code of conduct, and ethics, as well as 
with accounting, auditing, and technical standards approved by the Board; 
5. maintain documents, reports, and financial statements for a period of not less 
than 10 years from the date of issuing his report on each audited fiscal year, 
in accordance with the rules specified by the Regulations; 
6. provide SOCPA, upon request, with reports and audited financial statements 
using any means it deems fit; 
7. hire a specific percentage of Saudi nationals in accounting and auditing jobs 
in accordance with the Regulations and in line with the Labor Law and 
relevant decisions; and 
8. comply with the number of hours specified in the Regulations for supervising 
each audit for which a report is issued.  
Article 8 
A certified public accountant may not: 
1. audit companies or institutions in which he has a direct or indirect interest, 
subject to the Regulations; 
2. exceed the maximum number of listed joint-stock companies as determined 
by  the  Capital  Market  Authority  or  unlisted  joint-stock  companies  as 
determined by the Board which he may audit annually; 
3. disclose any information related to any of his clients to which he becomes 
privy or use the same for his own benefit, except with the express consent 
of the client or upon a request from relevant government agencies; and 
4. audit accounts of joint-stock companies, banks, and public agencies and 
institutions prior to the lapse of five years from the date of obtaining the 
license. 
Article 9 
1. If, for any reason, a certified public accountant ceases to practice or is 
suspended from practicing the profession temporarily or permanently, he 
shall notify SOCPA and his clients within 30 days from the date of cessation 
or suspension. If his suspension is permanent or exceeds two years, the 
license shall be deemed revoked. 
2. If a certified public accountant is permanently suspended from practicing the 
profession or if he ceases to do so for a certain period and such cessation 
negatively affects his clients or others, he or his representative shall notify 
SOCPA of all rights, obligations, and pending activities in order to address 
the same in accordance with the procedures specified by the Regulations. 
Article 10 
1. Without prejudice to any penalty stipulated under any other law, any person 
who commits one or more of the following offenses shall be subject to 
imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years and a fine not exceeding 
two million riyals, or either penalty: 
a) Providing false information or forged certificates to obtain a license. 
b) Leading  the  public  to  believe  that  he  has  the  right  to  practice  the 
profession despite the fact that he is unlicensed, his license is revoked, 
  5 

NEW PAGE

Law of the Profession of Accounting and Auditing 
 
 
 
he ceased practicing, or he is suspended from practicing the profession. 
c) Knowingly providing false information or concealing information which 
should be disclosed in any report, account, or document. 
d) Certifying  false  reports  or  documents  which  include  false  facts  the 
issuance of which is legally or professionally required. 
e) Certifying the distribution of fictitious profits. 
f)  Disclosing client’s confidential information. 
g) Certifying financial reports which have not been audited by him or an 
accountant working under his supervision.  
h) Providing or aiding in the provision of false information relating to the 
qualifications  of  his  employees  and  their  experiences  in  the  field  of 
accounting and auditing or other fields required by the profession. 
2. The court may include in the judgment a stipulation that a summary thereof 
be published at the expense of the convicted person in one newspaper or 
more issued in the area of his residence, or, if his area has no newspaper, 
in the newspaper of the area nearest to his place of residence, or by using 
any other appropriate medium; such action shall depend on the type, gravity, 
and impact of the committed offense, provided the summary is published 
after the judgment becomes final. 
Article 11 
The Public Prosecution shall investigate the offenses stipulated in Article 10 of 
this Law and may file a criminal suit before the competent court. 
Article 12 
The competent judicial body shall consider compensation and civil suits arising 
from the application of this Law which are filed by or against the certified public 
accountant. 
Article 13 
1. A committee, or more, shall be formed pursuant to a decision by the Minister 
to consider the violations stipulated in Article 14 of this Law. Such committee 
shall comprise four members, including two specialists in the profession and 
two  legal  advisors;  one  of  the  advisors  shall  be  the  chairman  of  the 
committee. 
2. Committee work procedures shall be issued, and the remuneration of its 
chairman,  members,  and  secretary  shall  be  determined  pursuant  to  a 
decision by the Minister and paid from SOCPA's budget. 
3. Without prejudice to relevant laws, a person against whom a penalty decision 
is issued may appeal such decision before the administrative court. 
4. Imposition of the penalties stipulated in this Law shall not prejudice the right 
of recourse against the person causing the harm. 
Article 14 
The  committee  shall,  upon  a  referral  from  SOCPA’s  relevant  department, 
review any of the following violations: 
  6 

NEW PAGE

Law of the Profession of Accounting and Auditing 
 
 
 
1. Violations  of  this  Law  or  the  Regulations  or  decisions  issued  for  the 
implementation thereof. 
2. Violations of the profession’s rules, code of conduct, and ethics, as well as 
its professional and technical standards. 
Article 15 
1. Without prejudice to any penalty stipulated in any other law, a certified public 
accountant who commits any of the violations stipulated in Article 14 of this 
Law shall be subject to one or more of the following penalties: 
a) A warning. 
b) Reprimand. 
c) Cancellation of his SOCPA membership. 
d) A fine not less than ten thousand riyals and not more than five hundred 
thousand riyals. 
e) Suspension from practicing the profession for a period not exceeding one 
year. 
2. If the same violation is repeated within three years from the date the first 
violation is committed, the committee may double the imposed fine and may 
revoke the violator’s license if he is suspended from practicing the profession 
more than twice or if he is suspended from practicing the profession for two 
years  or  more  within  a  period  of  five  years.  The  violation  shall  be 
commensurate with the prescribed penalty. 
Article 16 
The committee may, in addition to the penalties stipulated in Article 15 of this 
Law, consider taking corrective measures against the offending certified public 
accountant, including the following: 
1. Requiring him to attend specific training courses. 
2. Restricting the number of clients he may have and the type of services he 
may provide for a period of not less than one year and not more than two 
years. 
3. Requiring him to provide a plan which specifies the measures he shall take 
to rectify the violation. SOCPA shall carry out an independent examination 
of the work he performs during the rectification period. 
Article 17 
The committee may, while the violation is under review and upon SOCPA’s 
request, decide as a precautionary measure to prevent the violating certified 
public accountant from certifying his client’s financial statements and require 
him to disclose all his clients. 
Article 18 
The committee may summon the violator to hear his statement. If the violation 
is associated with any of the offenses stipulated in Article 10 of this Law, the 
committee shall refer it to the Public Prosecution for investigation. 
  7 

NEW PAGE

Law of the Profession of Accounting and Auditing 
 
 
 
Article 19 
A certified public accountant whose license is revoked under this Law may 
request reinstatement of his license after the lapse of five years from the date 
the revocation decision becomes effective. The Minister, or his designee, shall 
decide on the request. The same conditions and procedures required to issue 
a license shall apply. 
Article 20 
Without prejudice to the powers of relevant agencies, SOCPA employees 
appointed pursuant to a decision by the Minister shall detect the offenses 
stipulated in Article 10 of this Law as well as the violations of the provisions of 
this Law and the Regulations and decisions issued for the implementation 
thereof. 
Article 21 
This Law shall supersede the Law of Certified Public Accountants promulgated 
by Royal Decree No. (M/12) dated 13/5/1412H and shall repeal any provisions 
conflicting therewith. 
Article 22 
This Law shall enter into force 90 days following its publication in the Official 
Gazette. The Minister shall, within 90 days from the date of publication of this 
Law, issue the Regulations and decisions necessary for its implementation; 
such Regulations and decisions shall enter into force on the date this Law 
enters into force. 
  8 

NEW PAGE
Law of Value Added Tax 
 
Royal Decree No. M/113 
July 25, 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Translation of Saudi Laws 

NEW PAGE

Law of Value Added Tax 
 
 
 
NOTE: 
The translation of Saudi laws takes the following into consideration: 
•  Words used in the singular form include the plural and vice versa.  
•  Words used in the masculine form include the feminine.  
•  Words used in the present tense include the present as well as the future.  
•  The word “person” or “persons” and their related pronouns (he, his, him, they, 
their, them) refer to a natural and legal person.  
 
   
  2 

NEW PAGE

Law of Value Added Tax 
 
 
 
Law of Value Added Tax 
Chapter 1: Preliminary Provisions 
Article 1 
1. In this Law, the following terms shall have the meanings assigned thereto, 
unless the context requires otherwise: 
Authority: The General Authority of Zakat and Tax. 
Law: The Law of Value Added Tax. 
Agreement: The Unified Value Added Tax (VAT) Agreement for GCC States. 
Kingdom: The territory of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, including areas located 
outside the territorial waters in which the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia practices the 
right of sovereignty over its water, seabed, layers under the soil, and natural 
resources, in accordance with its laws and international law. 
Regulations: Any implementing regulations of the Law. 
Board of Directors: Board of Directors of the Authority. 
Output Tax: The tax due and chargeable on any taxable supply of goods or 
services made by a taxable person. 
Tax Invoice: An invoice issued in respect of taxable supplies in accordance 
with the requirements provided for in the Law and Regulations. 
2.  Except as provided in paragraph (1) of this Article, the terms used herein 
shall have the meanings assigned thereto in the Agreement. 
Article 2 
Tax shall be imposed on the import and supply of goods and services in 
accordance with the provisions stipulated in the Agreement, the Law, and the 
Regulations. 
Chapter 2: Registration for Tax Purposes  
Article 3 
1. A taxable person shall be obligated to register according to the economic 
activities he performs in the Kingdom, and in accordance with the provisions 
stipulated in the Agreement. 
2. A person performing an economic activity, who is not obligated to register 
under the provisions of the Agreement, may voluntarily register, provided 
that he complies with the terms and conditions provided in the Regulations. 
3. The Authority shall issue a registration certificate to each registered person, 
and the Regulations shall determine the information which must be included 
  3 

NEW PAGE

Law of Value Added Tax 
 
 
 
therein.  
4. The Authority shall create a register that contains the relevant details of each 
registered person. 
5. The Regulations shall determine: 
a) the  terms,  conditions,  and  necessary  procedures  for  registration,  its 
specified deadlines, cases for rejecting a registration application, and 
procedures for notifying the registrant of the relevant decisions issued by 
the Authority; and 
b) the terms and conditions for exempting a taxable person who provides 
only zero-rated taxable supplies from the obligation to register. 
Article 4 
1. The Regulations shall determine the terms and conditions under which a tax 
group may register, amend its registration, or cancel it.  
2. Members of a tax group shall be treated as a single taxable person. 
3. All members of a tax group shall be jointly and severally liable for the group’s 
tax obligations which arise during the term of their membership. 
Article 5 
1. A taxable person must apply for cancellation of his registration in any of the 
following cases: 
a) Cases stipulated in the Agreement. 
b) If the person is a resident and his total annual revenue does not exceed 
the  voluntary  registration  threshold  during  the  period  set  by  the 
Regulations. 
c) If the person is a non-resident and does not make any taxable supply 
during the period set by the Regulations. 
2. The  Regulations  shall  determine  the  periods  and  procedures  that  a 
registered person must comply with prior to cancelling the registration, the 
terms and conditions for rejecting an application for registration cancellation, 
and further cases for registration cancellation.  
3. A taxable person who cancels his registration shall be liable for all obligations 
under the Law which arise during the validity of his registration.  
Chapter 3: Supply of Goods and Services 
Article 6 
The Regulations shall determine the terms and conditions for implementing the 
provisions stipulated in the Agreement relating to nominal supplies.  
Article 7 
The Regulations shall determine the terms and conditions for a taxable person’s 
  4 

NEW PAGE

Law of Value Added Tax 
 
 
 
transfer of goods that constitute part of his assets from the Kingdom to a 
member state, or vice versa.  
Article 8 
The Regulations shall determine the transactions in which the supply of goods 
and services falls outside the scope of tax. 
Article 9 
A taxable person, acting in his name, who supplies or receives goods or 
services on behalf of another person shall be deemed, for the purposes of the 
Law and the Regulations, as supplying or receiving such goods or services for 
himself. 
Article 10 
The Regulations shall determine tax-exempt supplies and zero-rated supplies, 
as well as related terms and conditions.  
Article 11 
The Regulations shall determine the criteria and period for calculating the value 
of the annual supplies that a taxable person expects to achieve. 
Article 12 
The Regulations shall determine the terms and conditions for aggregating the 
revenues of related persons who conduct similar or related activities, and 
registering each of them or registering them on a mandatory basis, based on 
the total revenue. 
Chapter 4: Place of Supply 
Article 13 
The Regulations shall set the terms and conditions for determining the place of 
supply of goods and services according to the provisions of the Agreement. 
Article 14 
The Regulations may set the terms and conditions for determining the place of 
residence. 
  5 

NEW PAGE

Law of Value Added Tax 
 
 
 
Chapter 5: Taxable Value 
Article 15 
1. The value of imported goods shall be determined in accordance with the 
provisions of the Unified Customs Law. 
2. The Regulations shall set the competitiveness conditions for determining the 
fair market value of goods and services, and the terms and conditions for 
amending the value of a supply between related persons and the value of a 
supply in cases not provided for in the Agreement. 
Chapter 6: Imports 
Article 16 
1. Tax  shall  be due on  imports  into  the  Kingdom  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of the Agreement. 
2. If tax is suspended on imports of goods in accordance with the Unified 
Customs Law, the importer must provide a guarantee that covers the value 
of the tax as determined in the Regulations. 
Article 17 
The  Regulations  shall  determine  the  terms  and  conditions  for  exempting 
personal belongings, gifts brought in by travelers, and equipment for persons 
with special needs from tax in accordance with the Unified Customs Law. 
Chapter 7: Tax Calculation 
Article 18 
The tax rate due shall be the rate applicable on the date of supply or the date 
of import. 
Article 19 
The Regulations shall determine the date tax is due for supplies not provided 
for in the Agreement. 
Article 20 
The Regulations shall determine the periods for the calculation of tax and its 
terms and conditions. 
  6 

NEW PAGE

Law of Value Added Tax 
 
 
 
Article 21 
1. If an invoice is issued or payment is made for goods or services prior to the 
date this Law enters into force or prior to the registration date, and the supply 
takes place after such date, tax shall be due on the date of supply. 
2. The provision of paragraph (1) of this Article shall apply to internal supplies 
between a taxable supplier residing in the Kingdom and a customer in 
another member state, or vice versa. 
3. In relation to continuous supplies partially made prior to the date this Law 
enters into force or the registration date, and partially made after this date, 
tax shall not be due on the portion made prior to the date of entry into force 
or registration date. 
Chapter 8: Tax Deduction 
Article 22 
The Regulations shall determine the following: 
1. The terms and conditions for tax deduction, the methods for calculating the 
rate of deduction, and the conditions for considering the value of the non-
deductible input tax as zero. 
2. The input tax incurred for non-economic activity purposes. 
3. The  terms  and  conditions  required  for  a  taxable person  to prove loss, 
damage, or theft of supplied goods. 
4. The period of time for which a taxable person is entitled to deduct input tax 
for services he receives prior to the registration date. 
5. The terms and conditions for deducting input tax on capital assets according 
to the net book value of the assets on the date of registration. 
6. The means of proof by which a taxable person establishes the value of the 
tax due in the event that a tax invoice is not available or does not comply 
with  the  requirements  stipulated  in  the  Agreement,  the  Law,  and  the 
Regulations. 
Chapter 9: Tax Invoices 
Article 23 
The Regulations shall determine the following: 
1. The contents and form of tax invoices, and the periods for the issuance 
thereof. 
2. The terms and conditions for issuing summarized or simplified tax invoices. 
3. The terms and conditions for exempting a taxable person from the issuance 
of tax invoices for tax-exempt supplies. 
4. The conditions and procedures for accepting forms of invoices. 
5. The conditions for approving a taxable person's engagement of others to 
  7 

NEW PAGE

Law of Value Added Tax 
 
 
 
issue tax invoices on his behalf. 
Chapter 10: Tax Return 
Article 24 
1. The Regulations shall determine the tax period for which a taxable person 
must file a tax return. 
2. A taxable person must file a tax return with the Authority for each tax period 
within  the  period  provided  for  and  in  accordance  with  the  terms  and 
conditions set in the Regulations. 
3. A taxable person who becomes aware of an error in a tax return filed with 
the Authority must notify the Authority of the error in accordance with the 
procedures set in the Regulations. 
Article 25 
The Regulations shall determine the terms and conditions for the adjustment of 
the consideration for a supply in the original tax invoices or the amendment of 
the tax return. 
Article 26 
1. The Authority may conduct a tax assessment of a taxable person irrespective 
of the tax return filed by him. 
2. The Authority may conduct a new tax assessment to amend a previous 
assessment conducted thereby. 
3. The Authority must notify the taxable person of the tax assessment issued 
thereby in accordance with this Article. 
4. The Regulations shall determine the periods and procedures for conducting 
a tax assessment, the procedures for objecting to it, the means of notifying 
the taxable person of it, and the mechanisms for submitting an application 
for its correction. 
Chapter 11: Tax Payment 
Article 27 
1. The Regulations shall determine the periods and terms and conditions for 
the payment of net tax due on a taxable person. 
2. The Authority may allow a taxable person to change his tax period pursuant 
to a request submitted to the Authority in accordance with the terms and 
conditions set in the Regulations. 
3. The Authority may, pursuant to a reasoned decision, obligate a taxable 
person to change his tax period. 
4. The Authority must notify a taxable person of any change to his tax period in 
  8 

NEW PAGE

Law of Value Added Tax 
 
 
 
accordance with the periods and means specified in the Regulations. 
Article 28 
1. The Saudi Customs shall collect the tax due on imports in accordance with 
its procedures and transfer it to the account designated pursuant to an 
agreement between the Ministry of Finance and the Authority. 
2. Notwithstanding paragraph (1) of this Article, the Authority may allow a 
taxable person to defer the payment of tax due on goods imported for the 
purposes  of  an  economic  activity  in  accordance  with  the  terms  and 
conditions set in the Regulations. The taxable person must declare the 
deferred payment in his tax return in all cases. 
Article 29 
The Regulations shall determine the manner for the payment of tax due in the 
cases where the supply of goods or services is in the Kingdom while the 
supplier is not a resident thereof. 
Article 30 
The Regulations shall determine the terms and conditions for imposing tax on 
the supply of used goods by a taxable person on profit margin basis. 
Chapter 12: Tax Refund 
Article 31 
The Authority may exclude the categories specified in the Agreement from the 
payment of tax on receipt of goods and services in the Kingdom, and allow a 
refund of the tax incurred on the goods and services, in accordance with the 
terms and conditions stipulated in the Regulations. 
Article 32 
The Regulations shall determine the terms and conditions for granting foreign 
governments, international organizations, and diplomatic, military, and consular 
entities and missions, the right to request a refund of the tax incurred on goods 
and services in the Kingdom, and the terms and conditions required for applying 
tax at zero-rate on the supply of goods and services to these bodies. 
Article 33 
1. The Regulations shall determine the procedures required for refunding tax 
paid in the Kingdom by non-residents of GCC States. 
2. The Regulations shall determine the terms and conditions for a tax refund 
scheme for tourists. 
  9 

NEW PAGE

Law of Value Added Tax 
 
 
 
Article 34 
The Regulations shall determine the terms and conditions for allowing a taxable 
person to request a refund of the deductible or refundable net tax or its deferral 
to future tax periods. 
Chapter 13: Confidentiality and Exchange of Information  
Article 35 
1. Authority personnel as well as service providers and persons working for the 
Authority must maintain the confidentiality of tax information they receive in 
the course of their work, and they may not disclose such information except 
as  stipulated  in  the  Regulations  and  in  accordance  with  its  terms  and 
conditions, without prejudice to the laws applicable in the Kingdom. 
2. A recipient of information in accordance with paragraph (1) of this Article may 
not use such information except for the purposes for which the right of access 
thereto  is  granted,  and  he  must  maintain  the  confidentiality  of  such 
information in accordance with paragraph (1) of this Article. 
3. Except for cases stipulated in the Regulations, a person who receives and 
accesses tax information may not disclose such information to any third party 
and must return the documents relating to such information to the Authority. 
Chapter 14: Retention of Documents and Joint Liability  
Article 36 
The Regulations shall determine the period required for retaining tax invoices, 
books, records, and accounting documents. 
Article 37 
Without prejudice to cases of joint liability provided for in the Agreement and 
the Law, the Regulations shall determine other cases where joint liability with a 
taxable person is established and the measures taken against any person 
deemed jointly liable. 
Chapter 15: Inspection and Recording 
Article 38 
Employees, appointed by the Board of Directors, shall monitor, inspect, and 
record violations of the provisions of the Law and they shall have all the powers 
necessary  to  perform  their  duties.  The  Regulations  shall  determine  the 
  10 

NEW PAGE

Law of Value Added Tax 
 
 
 
procedures for carrying out their duties. 
Chapter 16: Tax Evasion and Penalties 
Article 39 
The following cases are considered tax evasion: 
1. Submitting  false,  forged,  or  fabricated  documents,  returns,  records,  or 
information with the intent of evading the payment of a due tax, reducing its 
value, or unlawfully obtaining a tax refund. The burden of proof for lack of 
intent shall fall on the taxable person. 
2. Bringing in or taking out of the Kingdom good or services, or attempting to 
do so, in violation of applicable laws, without payment of tax in whole or in 
part, or in violation of the prohibition and restriction provisions stipulated in 
the Law or any other law. 
Article 40 
Tax evasion shall be punishable by a fine not less than the amount of tax due 
and not more than three times the value of the goods or services subject of the 
evasion. 
Article 41 
Any person who fails to apply for registration within the periods specified in the 
Regulations shall be subject to a fine of 10,000 riyals. 
Article 42 
1. Any person who files an incorrect tax return to the Authority, amends a tax 
return after being filed, or files any document with the Authority in relation to 
the tax due by him which results in an error in the calculation of the tax 
amount resulting in an amount that is less than the tax due shall be subject 
to a fine equal to 50% of the difference between the calculated tax and the 
tax due. 
2. The Authority may, according to terms set by the Board of Directors, exempt 
a person from the penalty stipulated in paragraph (1) of this Article or reduce 
the same. 
3. Any person who fails to submit a tax return within the period specified by the 
Regulations shall be subject to a fine not less than 5% and not more than 
25% of the amount of tax that he should have declared. 
Article 43 
Any person who fails to pay the tax due within the period specified by the 
Regulations shall be subject to a fine equal to 5% of the amount of the unpaid 
tax for each month or part thereof for which the tax is not paid. 
  11 

NEW PAGE

Law of Value Added Tax 
 
 
 
Article 44 
A non-registered person shall be subject to a fine not exceeding 100,000 riyals 
for issuing a tax invoice, without prejudice to any harsher penalty stipulated in 
any other law. 
Article 45 
A fine not exceeding 50,000 riyals shall be imposed on any person who: 
1. fails to maintain tax invoices, books, records, and accounting documents for 
the period stipulated in the Regulations, and the fine shall be for each tax 
period; 
2. prevents or obstructs the Authority’s employees or any of the individuals 
working for the Authority from performing their duties; or 
3. violates any other provision of the Law or the Regulations. 
Article 46 
1. Fines imposed under this Law shall not prejudice payment of the due tax. 
2. The application of the penalties stipulated in the Law shall not prejudice any 
other penalties stipulated in any other law. 
Article 47 
If the same violation is repeated within three years from the date of issuing the 
final decision of a previous penalty, the fine imposed on the violator, pursuant 
to said decision, may be doubled. 
Chapter 17: Penalties and Review of Violations  
Article 48 
1. The Authority shall impose the penalties stipulated in the Law in accordance 
with  the  classification  of  violations  and  penalties  issued  pursuant  to  a 
decision by the Board of Directors, taking into account the proportionality 
between the violation and the penalty. 
2. The penalty shall be imposed pursuant to a decision by the governor of the 
Authority or any person designated by the Board of Directors. 
3. The penalty decision may include the publication of the sentence wording at 
the expense of the violator in a local newspaper issued in the area of his 
residence. If there is no newspaper in his area of residence, it shall be 
published in a newspaper in the nearest area to him or through any other 
appropriate medium depending on the type of violation, its gravity, and its 
effects, and after the decision becomes final. 
Article 49 
Any person against whom a penalty decision is issued may appeal such 
  12 

NEW PAGE

Law of Value Added Tax 
 
 
 
decision before the competent judicial authority within 30 days from the date of 
notification thereof; otherwise, the decision shall be deemed final and non-
appealable before any other judicial authority. 
Chapter 18: Final Provisions 
Article 50 
Subject to the provisions of Article 28 of the Law, the Authority shall be in charge 
of the administration, examination, assessment, and collection of tax, and shall, 
to this end, take any measures it deems fit. 
Article 51 
1. The Authority may coordinate with government agencies in all the matters 
relating to the implementation of the provisions of the Agreement, the Law, 
and the Regulations. 
2. Government agencies and other persons must provide the Authority with any 
information it requests for tax purposes. 
Article 52 
The Board of Directors shall issue the Regulations within 30 days from the date 
of issuance of the Law, and shall enter into force from the date of the Law’s 
entry into force. The Board shall also issue the decisions and instructions 
necessary to implement the provisions of the Law and the Regulations. 
Article 53 
1. The Law shall enter into force from the beginning of the fiscal year following 
the date of its publication in the Official Gazette. 
2. Notwithstanding paragraph (1) of this Article, any person obligated to register 
for tax purposes shall register with the Authority within 30 days from the date 
of publication of the Law. 
  13 

NEW PAGE
Law of Civil Procedure 
 
Royal Decree No. M/1 
November 25, 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Translation of Saudi Laws 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
NOTE: 
The translation of Saudi laws takes the following into consideration: 
•  Words used in the singular form include the plural and vice versa.  
•  Words used in the masculine form include the feminine.  
•  Words used in the present tense include the present as well as the future.  
•  The word “person” or “persons” and their related pronouns (he, his, him, they, 
their, them) refer to a natural and legal person.  
 
   
  2 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
Law of Civil Procedure 
Part 1: General Provisions 
Article 1 
Courts shall apply the provisions of Sharia to cases brought before them, as 
derived from the Quran and Sunnah, and State laws not conflicting therewith. 
Proceedings before such courts shall comply with the provisions of this Law. 
Article 2 
Any procedure deemed valid under laws in force shall remain valid unless 
otherwise provided for in this Law. 
Article 3 
1. No claim or defense shall be accepted unless submitted by a person with a 
legitimate interest. Potential interest shall be sufficient if the claim is intended 
as  a  precaution  to  avoid  imminent  damage  or  to  establish  a  right  the 
evidence for which may not be available at the time it is contested. 
2. The court shall reject any lawsuit proven to be frivolous or malicious, and it 
may punish the person filing such lawsuit. 
Article 4 
No public interest lawsuit may be filed except by the public prosecutor upon 
approval by the King. Such lawsuit may not be heard upon the lapse of 60 days 
from the date on which the claim arises.  
Article 5 
A proceeding shall be invalid if so declared by the law or if it suffers from a 
defect causing it to fail its purpose. It shall not be ruled invalid, notwithstanding 
a provision stating so, if it is established that the purpose of the proceeding is 
served. 
Article 6 
A clerk shall attend all hearings and all case proceedings along with the judge, 
and shall keep a record and cosign it with the judge. If the clerk fails to attend, 
the judge may take charge of the proceeding and draft the record.  
Article 7 
Process servers, clerks, and other judicial clerks may not perform any official 
task in cases involving them or their spouses, relatives or in-laws up to the 
fourth degree, including declarations involving dispute. Otherwise, such action 
shall be deemed null and void. 
  3 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
Article 8 
Periods and dates stipulated in this Law shall be calculated according to Umm 
al-Qura calendar, and sunset shall be deemed the end of the day. 
Article 9 
In the application of the provisions of this Law, the term place of residence shall 
mean  the  place  where  a  person  normally  resides.  For  nomads,  place  of 
residence shall be deemed the place where a person resides at the time of filing 
the lawsuit. For detainees and prisoners, place of residence shall be deemed 
the place where a person is detained or imprisoned. 
A  person  may  designate  a  place  of  residence  for  receiving  the  notices 
addressed to him, in addition to his permanent place of residence, and shall 
notify  the  court  of  any  change  in  his  designated  or  permanent  place  of 
residence. 
Article 10 
A case properly filed with a competent court may not be transferred to another 
court or authority nor withdrawn before judgment is rendered. A case shall be 
deemed filed from the date of its entry into the court registry.  
Article 11 
1. Processes shall be served by process servers at the order of the judge or 
the request of the litigant or court administration. Litigants or their agents 
shall continue the proceedings and submit papers to process servers for 
service. Service may be carried out by the plaintiff if he so petitions. 
2. Processes may be served by process servers from the private sector in 
accordance with controls specified in the regulations of this Law. Private 
process servers shall be subject to rules and procedures governing process 
servers. 
Article 12 
A process may not be served at a place of residence before sunrise or after 
sunset or during official holidays, except in compelling circumstances and with 
the written permission of the judge. 
Article 13 
A service of process must be in duplicate, an original and a copy. If several 
persons are served, a copy shall be served to each person.  
The process shall include the following: 
a) Subject of the process, and date of service specifying day, month, year and 
time. 
b) Full name, identification number, occupation or job, place of residence and 
place of work of the person requesting the process as well as full name, 
identification number, occupation or job, place of residence and place of work 
  4 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
of his representative. 
c) Full name of the defendant and any available information relating to his 
occupation or job, place of residence and place of work. If his place of 
residence is unknown, the process shall be served at his last known place of 
residence. 
d) Name of the process server and the court where he works. 
e) Name and capacity of the person receiving the copy of the notification and 
his signature on the original, or a proof of his refusal and reason therefor. 
f)  The server's signature on both the copy and the original. 
In case of government agencies, the name and location of the agency shall be 
deemed sufficient for the purposes of paragraphs (b and c) of this Article. 
The Supreme Judicial Council may, if necessary, add other means and details. 
Article 14 
The server shall deliver a copy of the notification and attachments thereto to 
the person to be served at his place of residence or work if available; otherwise, 
he shall deliver the same to whomever he deems to be his agent or a person 
working for him or to any of his family members, relatives or in-laws residing 
with him. If none of them are present or if the one present refuses receipt of 
said notification or is a minor, the copy and attachments shall be delivered, as 
the case may be, to the Umdah (chief of the quarter), the police station, the 
administrator  of  the  township  or  the  chieftain  of  the  tribe  within  whose 
jurisdiction lies the place of residence of the person to be served, in that order, 
and obtain their signature on the original acknowledging receipt. 
The server shall, within 24 hours of the delivery of a copy to any of the parties 
provided for in this Article, send a letter – via registered mail – to the person to 
be served at his place of residence or work notifying him that a copy has been 
delivered to said party, and shall indicate the same in detail on the original 
notice. The process shall be deemed effective from the time of delivery of the 
copy as per the above conditions. 
Article 15 
Administrators of townships, police stations, Umdas and chieftains of tribes 
shall, within their jurisdictions, assist the court process server in performing his 
task. 
Article 16 
A process shall be valid if served on the person to be served, even if at other 
than his place of residence or work. 
Article 17 
A copy of the notice shall be delivered as follows: 
a) With respect to government agencies: to their heads, or designees. 
b) With respect to public corporate persons: to their managers, or designees. 
  5 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
c) With respect to companies, associations and private establishments: to their 
managers, or designees. 
d) With respect to foreign companies and establishments with branches or 
agents in the Kingdom: to the branch manager, or designee, or to the agent, 
or designee. 
e) With respect to armed forces personnel and those of similar status: to the 
immediate superior of the person to be served. 
f)  With respect to ship crew: to the captain. 
g) With respect to interdicted persons: to their trustees or guardians as the case 
may be. 
h) With respect to prisoners or detainees: to the warden of the prison or 
detention center, or designee. 
i)  With respect to persons without known or designated place of residence in 
the Kingdom: to the Ministry of Interior to notify him in an appropriate manner. 
Article 18 
In all the cases set forth in Article 17 of this Law, if the person to be served, or 
designee, refuses to receive a copy of the service notice or sign the original 
acknowledging receipt, the server shall so indicate on the original and the copy, 
and deliver the copy to the governorate within whose jurisdiction lies the place 
of residence of the person to be served, or to the entity designated by the 
governorate. The process server shall indicate the same in detail on the original 
of the notice and the process shall be deemed valid as of the date of delivery 
of the copy to the relevant recipient. 
Article 19 
If the place of residence of the person to be served is outside the Kingdom, a 
copy of the notice shall be sent to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for delivery 
through diplomatic channels. A statement indicating that the copy has been 
delivered to the person to be served shall be deemed sufficient. 
Article 20 
If the place of service in the Kingdom lies outside the court’s jurisdiction, the 
papers to be served shall be sent by such court to the court within whose 
jurisdiction the service takes place. 
Article 21 
A period of 60 days shall be added to the statutory time limits for persons 
residing outside the Kingdom, and the court may, if necessary, extend the same 
for a similar period. 
Article 22 
If the time limit is set in days, months or years, it shall not include the notice day 
or the day of the event initiating the time limit, as recognized by law. The time 
limit shall expire at the end of the last day if the proceeding takes place on such 
  6 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
day. If the time limit must expire prior to the proceeding, the proceeding shall 
not take place except upon the lapse of the last day of the time limit. If the time 
limit is set in hours, its starting hour and its hour of expiry shall be calculated as 
above. 
If the time limit expires on an official holiday, it shall extend into the first working 
day thereafter. 
Article 23 
Arabic shall be the official language of courts. The court shall hear non-Arabic 
speaking litigants, witnesses and others through an interpreter. A certified 
Arabic  translation  prepared  by  a  licensed  office  shall  be  presented  for 
documents in a foreign language. 
Part 2: Jurisdiction 
Chapter 1: International Jurisdiction 
Article 24 
The Kingdom’s courts shall have jurisdiction over cases filed against a Saudi 
citizen even if he has no known general or designated place of residence in the 
Kingdom, except for cases in rem involving real property outside the Kingdom. 
Article 25 
The Kingdom’s courts shall have jurisdiction over cases filed against non-
Saudis who have a general or a designated place of residence in the Kingdom, 
except for cases in rem involving real property outside the Kingdom. 
Article 26 
The Kingdom’s courts shall have jurisdiction over cases filed against non-
Saudis who have no general or designated place of residence in the Kingdom 
in the following cases: 
a) If  the  lawsuit  involves  property  located  in  the  Kingdom  or  obligation 
considered to have originated or is enforceable in the Kingdom. 
b) If the lawsuit involves bankruptcy declared in the Kingdom. 
c) If the lawsuit is filed against more than one person and one of them has a 
place of residence in the Kingdom. 
Article 27 
The Kingdom’s courts shall have jurisdiction over cases filed against a non-
Saudi Muslim who has no general or designated place of residence in the 
Kingdom in the following cases: 
  7 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
a) If the case is against a marriage contract to be executed in the Kingdom. 
b) If the case is for divorce or annulment of a marriage contract and is filed by 
a Saudi wife or a wife who has lost her Saudi citizenship by reason of 
marriage if either one is residing in the Kingdom, or a non-Saudi wife residing 
in the Kingdom, against her husband who has a place of residence in the 
Kingdom if the husband abandoned her and took residence abroad or if he 
was deported from the Kingdom. 
c) If the lawsuit is for support and the person for whom support is claimed 
resides in the Kingdom. 
d) If the lawsuit involves paternity of a child in the Kingdom or relates to an 
issue of custody over a person or property when the minor or the person to 
be interdicted has a place of residence in the Kingdom. 
e) If the lawsuit involves some other family matters and the plaintiff is a Saudi 
or a non-Saudi residing in the Kingdom, provided the defendant has no 
known place of residence abroad. 
Article 28 
Except  for  cases  in  rem  involving  real  estate  outside  the  Kingdom,  the 
Kingdom’s courts shall have jurisdiction over cases when the litigants accept 
these courts' jurisdiction, even if the case does not fall within their jurisdiction. 
Article 29 
The Kingdom’s courts shall have jurisdiction over precautionary and provisional 
measures enforced in the Kingdom, even if such courts have no jurisdiction 
over the original case. 
Article 30 
The jurisdiction of the Kingdom’s courts shall entail having jurisdiction over 
preliminary and incidental petitions relating to the original case as well as 
consideration of any petition relating to such case if the proper conduct of 
justice requires that they are considered together. 
Chapter 2: Subject Matter Jurisdiction 
Article 31 
General  courts  shall  have  jurisdiction  to  consider  all  lawsuits,  cases, 
presentations and the like, which are beyond the jurisdiction of other courts, 
notaries public and the Board of Grievances. They may, in particular, consider 
the following: 
a) Lawsuits relating to real property, including disputes over ownership or any 
associated right; harm inflicted by the real property or users thereof; or 
lawsuits relating to values of utilities, eviction, payment or contribution to rent; 
or lawsuits relating to restraining interference with possession or recovery of 
possession and the like, unless the law provides otherwise. 
  8 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
b) Issuing title deeds for real property ownership or endowment. 
c) Lawsuits resulting from traffic accidents and offences provided for in the 
Traffic Law and its Implementing Regulations.  
Article 32 
General courts in a county or township where there is no specialized court shall 
have jurisdiction over lawsuits, cases, presentations and the like, which fall 
within the jurisdiction of such specialized court, unless the Supreme Judicial 
Council decides otherwise. 
Article 33 
Family courts shall have jurisdiction to consider the following: 
a) all family matters, including: 
1. recording marriage, divorce, khul’ (divorce at the insistence of the wife), 
dissolution of marriage, revocation of divorce, child custody, alimony and 
visitation; 
2. registration  of  endowment,  will,  paternity,  absence,  death  and 
determination of heirs; 
3. inheritance and distribution thereof, including real estate if disputed or it 
involves a share of endowment or will, or a minor or an absentee; 
4. recording  the  designation  of  trustees,  guardians  and  administrators; 
permitting them to perform actions that require the court’s permission and 
dismissing them if necessary, as well as imposing interdiction against 
spendthrifts or removal thereof, subject to procedures set forth in the 
Regulations of this Law; 
5. recording a power of attorney by illiterate deaf persons; and 
6. marrying off women who have no guardians or are deprived of marriage 
by their guardians. 
b) lawsuits arising from family matters; and 
c) lawsuits filed for imposing penalties provided for in the Law of the General 
Commission for Guardianship over Property of Minors and those of Similar 
Status. 
Article 34 
Labor courts shall have jurisdiction to consider the following: 
a) Disputes  relating  to  work  contracts,  wages,  rights,  work  injuries  and 
compensation therefor. 
b) Disputes relating to disciplinary measures imposed on employees by their 
employers or requesting exemption therefrom. 
c) Lawsuits filed for imposing penalties provided for in the Labor Law. 
d) Disputes arising from termination of employment. 
e) Complaints made by employers and employees whose objections to any 
decision issued by any competent department of the General Organization 
for Social Insurance, relating to mandatory registration; contributions or 
compensation, have been refused. 
f)  Disputes relating to employees governed by the provisions of the Labor Law, 
  9 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
including workers employed by the government. 
g) Disputes arising from the application of the Labor Law and Social Insurance 
Law, without prejudice to the jurisdictions of other courts and the Board of 
Grievances. 
Article 35 
Commercial courts shall have jurisdiction to consider the following: 
a) All original and corollary commercial disputes between merchants. 
b) Lawsuits filed against a merchant due to his original commercial activities or 
an activity related thereto. 
c) Disputes between partners in partnerships. 
d) All lawsuits and violations relating to commercial laws, without prejudice to 
the jurisdiction of the Board of Grievances. 
e) Lawsuits of bankruptcy and imposition of interdiction on bankrupt persons 
and removal thereof. 
f)  Other commercial disputes. 
Chapter 3: Territorial Jurisdiction 
Article 36 
1. Jurisdiction shall belong to the court within whose jurisdiction the defendant’s 
place of residence falls. If the defendant does not have a place of residence 
in  the  Kingdom,  the jurisdiction  shall  belong  to  the  court  within  whose 
jurisdiction the plaintiff’s place of residence falls. 
2. If neither the plaintiff nor the defendant has a place of residence in the 
Kingdom, the plaintiff may file the case with any court in any city in the 
Kingdom. 
3. In case of multiple defendants, jurisdiction shall belong to the court with 
jurisdiction over the place of residence of the majority. In case of equal 
numbers, the plaintiff shall have the right to file the case with any court having 
jurisdiction over the place of residence of any of them. 
Article 37 
Cases  against  government  agencies  shall  be  filed  with  the  court  having 
jurisdiction over its head office. A lawsuit may be filed with the court having 
jurisdiction over the branch of a government agency in matters relating to that 
branch. 
Article 38 
Lawsuits relating to existing companies and societies or those under liquidation, 
or to private establishments, shall be filed with the court having jurisdiction over 
its head office irrespective of whether the case is filed against the company, 
society or establishment, or by the company, society or establishment against 
a partner or a member, or by a partner or a member against another partner or 
member. A lawsuit may be filed with the court having jurisdiction over the 
  10 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
branch of a company, society or establishment in matters relating to that 
branch. 
Article 39 
The following shall be excluded from the application of Article 36 of this Law: 
1. A claimant of alimony shall have the right to file a lawsuit with the court having 
jurisdiction over the place of residence of either the claimant or defendant. 
2. A woman, in marital matters or matters relating to custody, visitation or 
deprivation of marriage by a guardian, shall have the right to file the lawsuit 
in either her town or that of the defendant. If the court hears the lawsuit in 
the plaintiff’s town, it shall succeed the defendant’s town court to consider 
her lawsuit. If the lawsuit is transferred, the defendant shall be summoned to 
appear before the court with which the lawsuit is filed in order to proceed 
therewith. If the defendant abstains, the lawsuit shall be heard in absentia 
and  if  the  lawsuit  is  not  transferred,  the  court  shall  dismiss  it  without 
summoning the defendant. 
3. A plaintiff in lawsuits arising from traffic accidents occurring in a town other 
than that of the defendant shall have the right to file the lawsuit with the court 
within whose jurisdiction the place of the accident or defendant’s place of 
residence falls. 
Article 40 
A city, county or township shall be considered the territorial jurisdiction of the 
court located therein. If there are multiple courts, the Supreme Judicial Council 
shall designate the territorial jurisdiction of each. A township with no court shall 
fall within the jurisdiction of the court of the nearest town within the province, 
unless  the  Supreme  Judicial  Council  determines  that  they  fall  within  the 
jurisdiction of another court in the same province. In case of conflict of territorial 
jurisdiction, the case shall be referred to the Supreme Court to decide thereon. 
Part 3: Filing and Recording Lawsuits 
Article 41  
1. A lawsuit shall be filed with the court by the plaintiff, by means of a statement 
of claim signed by the plaintiff or his representative, in an original and as 
many copies as there are defendants. 
The statement of claim must include the following: 
a) Plaintiff's full name, identification number, profession or occupation, place 
of residence and place of work, as well as his representative’s full name, 
identification number, profession or occupation, place of residence and 
place of work. 
b) Defendant's  full  name,  available  information  about  his  profession  or 
occupation, place of residence and place of work, or his last place of 
residence if he has no known place of residence. 
  11 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
c) Date of submission of the statement of claim. 
d) The court before which the lawsuit is filed. 
e) Plaintiff’s designated place of residence in the town where the court is 
located if he has no place of residence therein. 
f)  Subject matter of the suit and plaintiff’s claim and evidence. 
As to government agencies referred to in paragraphs (a, b and e) of this Article, 
the name and location of said government agencies shall be deemed sufficient.  
The Supreme Judicial Council may, if necessary, add other means and details. 
2. A single statement of claim may not combine several unrelated claims. 
3.  
a) Rules and procedures relating to labor disputes shall apply to labor class 
action  lawsuits,  unless  the  Supreme  Judicial  Council  determines 
otherwise. 
b) A labor class action lawsuit shall mean any dispute arising between one 
employer (or more) and his employees, or a group of them, for reasons 
relating to work or terms thereof. 
Article 42 
The clerk shall enter the case in the court docket on the day the statement of 
claim is filed, upon recording the date of the hearing on the original and copies 
thereof in the presence of the plaintiff or his representative. The clerk shall, not 
later than the following day, deliver the original statement of claim and copies 
thereof to the process server or plaintiff, as the case may be, for serving and 
returning the original to the court administration. 
Article 43 
Taking into consideration the date set for appearance, the process server or 
plaintiff, as the case may be, shall serve a copy of the statement of claim to the 
defendant not later than 15 days from the date of receipt, unless a hearing is 
set within such period. In such case, the statement of claim shall be served 
prior to the hearing. 
Article 44 
The date of appearance before a general court shall not be less than eight days 
from the date of service of the statement of claim. The date of appearance 
before labor, commercial and family courts shall not be less than four days from 
the date of service of the statement of claim. The four-day period shall apply to 
labor, commercial and family cases brought before the general court in a county 
or township. Such period may be reduced to 24 hours in lawsuits arising from 
traffic accidents, or when necessary, provided that the litigant is served in 
person and is able to reach the court in time. Reduction of such period shall be 
with the permission of the court before which the lawsuit is filed. 
Article 45 
With the exception of summary cases and cases where the period of court date 
  12 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
is shortened, the defendant shall deposit with the court his statement of defense 
at least three days prior to the hearing set for consideration of the case before 
the general court and at least one day prior to the hearing before other courts 
and before labor, commercial and family circuits, if the case is considered by 
the general court in a county or township. 
Article 46 
Failure to observe the period set forth in Article 43 of this Law or the court date 
shall not invalidate the statement of claim, without prejudice to the right of the 
person served to postponement for completion of the period. 
Article 47 
If the plaintiff and defendant voluntarily appear before a court and request a 
hearing of their dispute, the court shall promptly hear the case, if possible, or 
set another hearing, even if the case is beyond its territorial jurisdiction. 
Article 48 
If a court sets a hearing for two litigants but they appear at other than the set 
date and they petition the court to consider their dispute, the court shall, if 
possible, grant such petition. 
Part 4: Appearance and Absence of Litigants and Representation in 
Litigation 
Chapter 1: Appearance and Representation in Litigation 
Article 49 
On the day set for consideration of the case, the litigants shall appear in person 
or through representation. If the representative is an agent, he shall be eligible 
to act as a legal representative according to the law. 
Article 50 
An agent shall declare his appearance on behalf of his client and shall deposit 
a certified copy of the document of his power of attorney with the competent 
clerk. The court may, at its discretion, allow the deposit of the copy of the 
document by the agent within a period prescribed by the court, provided that it 
is not later than the first hearing. The power of attorney may be established by 
a declaration to be entered in the hearing record and signed or thumb-printed 
by the principal. 
The aforementioned mandatory deposit shall also apply to trustees, guardians 
and administrators. 
  13 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
Article 51 
Whatever the agent declares in the presence of the principal shall in effect be 
considered a declaration by the principal himself unless the principal denies it 
in the same hearing. If the principal fails to appear, the agent may not concede 
the right claimed; make a waiver or accept a settlement; accept, direct, or reject 
an oath; drop the litigation; waive judgment in whole or in part or through any 
method of appeal; lift an interdiction; release a mortgage while leaving the debt 
unpaid; claim forgery; request dismissal of the judge; or select or reject an 
expert, unless he is specifically authorized to do so in the power of attorney. 
Article 52 
Resignation or dismissal of an agent without the court’s approval shall not 
preclude  continuation  of  the  proceedings  unless  the  principal  notifies  his 
adversary of the appointment of another agent, or of his intention to pursue the 
case pro se. 
Article 53 
 If the court establishes that an agent has been dilatory under the pretext of the 
need to consult his client with the intent to procrastinate, the court may instruct 
the principal himself to complete the proceeding or assign another agent. 
Article 54 
A judge, a member of the Bureau of Investigation and Public Prosecution, or a 
court employee may not serve as an agent for a litigant in a case, even if filed 
before  a  different  court.  They  are,  however,  permitted  to  represent  their 
spouses, ascendants and descendants as well as persons legally under their 
guardianship. 
Chapter 2: Absence of Litigants 
Article 55 
If the plaintiff is absent from a hearing without an excuse acceptable to the 
court,  the  case  shall  be  dismissed.  The  plaintiff  may,  however,  petition 
continuation of the case. In such case, the court shall schedule a hearing for 
consideration and shall notify the defendant. If the plaintiff is absent again 
without an excuse acceptable to the court, the case shall be dismissed and may 
only be heard pursuant to a decision by the Supreme Court. 
Article 56 
In the cases provided for in Article 55 of this Law, if the defendant attends the 
hearing from which the plaintiff is absent, he may petition the court not to 
dismiss the case and to render a decision on its merits; in which case, the court 
  14 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
shall rule on such case and the judgment shall be considered in absentia with 
respect to the plaintiff. 
Article 57 
1. If the defendant is absent from the first hearing without being notified in 
person or through his agent, consideration of the case shall be postponed to 
a subsequent hearing of which the defendant shall be notified. If he is absent 
from said hearing without an excuse acceptable to the court and without 
being notified in person or through his agent, the court shall rule on the case 
and  its  judgment  shall  be  considered  in  absentia  with  respect  to  the 
defendant. 
2. If the defendant or his agent in the same case is notified of the date of hearing 
in person, or a memorandum of defense is deposited with the court by the 
defendant or his agent prior to the scheduled hearing of the case, or if the 
defendant appears at any of the hearings then fails to appear again, the court 
shall rule on the case and the judgment shall not be deemed in absentia with 
respect to the defendant. 
3. If the defendant, who has no known or designated place of residence in the 
Kingdom, fails to appear after being served pursuant to Article 17(i) of this 
Law, the court shall rule on the case and the judgment shall be deemed in 
absentia with respect to the defendant. 
4. If the defendant is absent in cases relating to marital matters or matters of 
custody, alimony, visitation or prevention of a woman from marriage by her 
guardian, the court may order the defendant to be brought by force in 
accordance with controls stipulated in the regulations of this Law. 
Article 58 
In case of multiple defendants, where some are served in person while the 
others are not, and all of them or only those not served in person are absent, 
the court shall, in other than summary cases, postpone consideration of the 
case to a subsequent hearing and the plaintiff shall serve notice of that hearing 
to those absent who are not served in person. The decision in the case shall 
not be deemed in absentia with respect to served defendants. 
Article 59 
In application of the preceding provisions, a person shall not be considered 
absent if he arrives 30 minutes prior to the end of a hearing’s scheduled time if 
such hearing has not started. If he arrives while the hearing is in progress, he 
shall be considered present. 
Article 60 
1. A person against whom a judgment in absentia has been rendered may, 
within the appeal period specified in this Law, challenge the judgment before 
the court which rendered it, as of the date of notifying him or his agent of the 
judgment. 
2. The  appeal  shall  be  filed  by  a  memorandum  pursuant  to  established 
  15 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
procedures for filing cases. Said memorandum shall state the number and 
date of appealed judgment and grounds for such appeal. 
3. If the appellant or his agent fails to attend the first hearing of the appeal, the 
court shall, upon its own motion, rule that the right to appeal is deemed 
forfeited and such judgment shall be deemed final. 
4. The court may order provisional stay of execution of an appealed judgment 
if it is petitioned to do so in the memorandum of appeal and the execution of 
said judgment would result in a grave and irreparable harm. 
5. Execution  of  a  judgment  in  absentia  shall  be  stayed  if  reversed  by  a 
judgment. 
Part 5: Hearing Procedures and Order 
Chapter 1: Hearing Procedures 
Article 61 
Hearings shall be attended by the legally required number of judges. If the 
required  number  is  not  satisfied,  the  chief  judge  shall  assign  a  judge  to 
complete the quorum. If this is unattainable, the Chairman of the Supreme 
Judicial Council shall assign a judge to complete the quorum. 
Article 62 
The clerk shall each day draft a list of cases arranged according to time 
scheduled for their consideration. Upon presentation to the judge, the list shall 
be posted on the docket prior to the hearing date. 
Article 63 
Litigants shall be called at the time scheduled for considering their case. 
Article 64 
Hearings shall be held in open court unless the judge, upon his own motion or 
the motion of one of the parties, holds the hearing in a closed session in order 
to maintain order, observe public morality or protect the privacy of the family. 
Article 65 
Arguments shall be oral. This, however, shall not preclude the presentation of 
statements  or  defenses  in  written  memoranda,  copies  of  which  may  be 
exchanged between litigants. The original shall be kept in the case file and 
referenced in the record. The court shall grant litigants sufficient time to review 
and respond to the documents when necessary. 
  16 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
Article 66 
The judge shall ask the plaintiff with regard to necessary aspects of his claim 
prior to questioning the defendant and may not otherwise proceed with the 
case. If the plaintiff is unable or unwilling to do so, the judge shall dismiss the 
case. 
Article 67 
If the defendant categorically refuses to answer or gives answers not relevant 
to the case, the judge shall repeat the request for a correct answer three times 
in the same hearing. If the defendant persists, the judge shall caution him and 
then  consider  him  to  have  declined,  and  shall  proceed  with  the  case  in 
accordance with Sharia. 
Article 68 
If either party presents a valid defense and requests a response from the other 
party who asks for postponement, the judge may postpone the case if he deems 
it necessary, but postponement may not be granted again for responding to the 
same request except for a reason acceptable to the judge. 
Article 69 
Arguments shall close once litigants conclude their arguments. The court may, 
prior  to  pronouncement  of  judgment,  and  for  justifiable  reasons,  reopen 
arguments on its own motion or the motion of one of the litigants and re-enter 
the case in the docket. 
Article 70 
Litigants may, at any stage of the case, ask the court to enter agreed-upon 
acknowledgement, settlement, or the like in the case record, and the court shall 
issue a deed to that effect.  
Article 71 
The clerk shall, under the supervision of the judge, enter the minutes of the 
arguments in the record, stating the date and time of the beginning and end of 
each argument, grounds for reviewing the case, name of the judge and names 
of  litigants  and  agents.  The  judge,  clerk  and  persons  whose  names  are 
mentioned therein shall sign the record. If any declines to sign, the judge shall 
indicate the same in the record of the hearing. 
Article 72 
Particulars  provided  in  statements  of  claim,  processes,  case  records, 
representations and the like, may be entered electronically and shall have the 
same legal effect as written documents in accordance with the Electronic 
Transactions Law. 
  17 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
Chapter 2: Hearing Order 
Article 73 
1. The presiding judge shall be in charge of order and management of the 
hearing and may, for this purpose, remove from the courtroom any person 
who  disturbs  order.  If  such  person  does  not  comply,  the  court  may 
immediately imprison him for a period not exceeding 24 hours. Its decision 
shall be final. The court may reverse such decision.  
2. In the event of a crime committed while the court is in session, the presiding 
judge shall order the recording of the crime and refer the same to the Bureau 
of Investigation and Public Prosecution for necessary legal action. He may 
also order the arrest of the offender. 
3. The court rendering the judgment shall review claims for damages resulting 
from repeated default in fulfillment of liabilities subject of the case. 
Article 74 
The  presiding judge  shall  be  in  charge of  directing  questions  to  litigants, 
witnesses  and  other  persons  related  to  the  suit.  Other  circuit  judges 
participating in  the hearing as  well  as litigants  may  petition him  to  direct 
questions relating to the suit. The presiding judge may delegate the questioning 
of litigants, witnesses and others to any member of the panel. 
Part 6: Motions, Joinder, Intervention and Incidental Petitions 
Chapter 1: Motions 
Article 75 
Motions for the invalidity of the statement of claim, improper venue, or for 
transferring the case to another court because the same dispute or another 
related case is filed with said court, shall be presented before any request or 
defense is made in the case; otherwise, any right not so presented shall be 
forfeited. 
Article 76 
1. A motion for lack of jurisdiction; type or value of the suit; dismissal of the suit 
for lack of capacity, interest or any other ground; or if the suit has been 
previously decided, shall be admissible at any stage of the hearing and shall 
be decided by the court on its own motion. 
2. If the court determines that a motion for dismissal of the case for lack of 
defendant's capacity is justifiable, it shall postpone the case in order to notify 
the person with proper capacity. 
  18 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
 Article 77 
The court shall rule independently on motions provided for in Articles 75 and 76 
of this Law unless it decides to include them with the subject matter of the suit; 
in which case, it shall indicate its ruling on both the motions and subject matter. 
Article 78 
Subject to Article 178 of this Law, if a court rules that it lacks jurisdiction and 
said ruling becomes final, it shall refer the suit to the competent court and notify 
the litigants accordingly. 
Chapter 2: Joinder and Intervention 
Article 79 
A litigant may petition the court to join in the suit whoever would validly have 
been a litigant when the case was filed, following normal summons procedures. 
The court shall, if possible, rule on the petition for joinder and on the original 
suit in the same judgment; otherwise, it shall rule on the petition for joinder after 
ruling on the original suit. 
Article 80 
The court may, on its own motion or the motion of a litigant, order the joinder of 
a person if it would serve the interest of justice. 
The court shall set a date within a period not exceeding 15 days for the 
appearance of the person ordered to be joined by the court or at the petition of 
litigants, in accordance with applicable case-filing procedures. 
Article 81 
Any person with interest may intervene in the case by joining one of the litigants 
or by petitioning a judgment for himself on a matter related to the case. 
Intervention shall be pursuant to a memorandum served to the litigants before 
the day of the hearing in accordance with applicable case-filing procedures, or 
pursuant to an oral petition made during the hearing in the presence of the 
litigants.  Said  petition  shall  be  recorded  in  the  hearing  transcript.  No 
intervention may be permitted after the closing of proceedings. 
Chapter 3: Incidental Petitions 
Article 82 
Incidental petitions shall be filed by the plaintiff or defendant by means of a 
memorandum  served  to  the  litigants  before  the  day  of  the  hearing  in 
  19 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
accordance  with  applicable  case-filing  procedures,  or  pursuant  to  an  oral 
petition made during the hearing in the presence of the litigant. Said petition 
shall be recorded in the hearing transcript. No incidental petitions may be 
permitted after the closing of proceedings. 
Article 83 
The plaintiff may make the following incidental petitions: 
a) Matters that involve correcting the original petition or amending its subject 
matter to meet exigencies that arose or became known after the lawsuit was 
filed. 
b) Matters complementing, arising from, or indivisibly linked to the original 
petition. 
c) Matters involving an addition or a change to the grounds of the case, leaving 
the original subject matter of the case unchanged. 
d) Petitioning an order for preventive or temporary action. 
e) Whatever the court permits in connection with the original petition. 
Article 84 
The defendant may make the following incidental petitions: 
a) Petition for judicial offset. 
b) Petition for a judgment for compensation for damages sustained as a result 
of the original case or a proceeding therein. 
c) Any petition which, if granted, results in not rendering judgment on all or 
some of the petitions of the plaintiff, or rendering a judgment with limitations 
for the benefit of the defendant. 
d) Any petition indivisibly linked to the original case. 
e) Whatever the court permits in connection with the original case. 
Article 85 
The court shall, if possible, rule on an incidental petition along with the original 
case; otherwise, it shall retain the incidental petition for ruling upon ascertaining 
its validity. 
Part 7: Suspension, Discontinuance and Abandonment of Litigation 
Chapter 1: Suspension of Litigation 
Article 86 
Court proceedings may be suspended by agreement of the litigants for a period 
not exceeding six months following approval of such agreement by the court. 
Said suspension shall have no effect on any time limitation set by the law for a 
particular proceeding. 
  20 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
A litigant may, subject to the approval of the adverse party, petition proceeding 
with the case prior to expiration of the agreed-upon period. 
If the litigants do not resume the case proceedings within the 10 days following 
the end of the specified period, the plaintiff shall be deemed to have abandoned 
his case. 
Article 87 
If a court determines that its judgment on the merit of a case should be 
contingent on deciding another matter on which the judgment depends, it shall 
order suspension of the case. Once the ground for such suspension no longer 
exists, the litigants may petition resumption of the case. 
Chapter 2: Discontinuance of Litigation 
Article 88 
1. Unless the case is ripe for judgment on its merits, litigation shall discontinue 
upon the death of a litigant, loss of capacity to litigate, or loss of capacity to 
represent any of the litigants. Litigation, however, shall not discontinue upon 
the expiry of a power of attorney. The court may grant ample time to the 
principal if he appoints a new agent within 15 days of the expiry of the first 
power of attorney. If, however, the case is ripe for judgment, the litigation 
shall not be discontinued and the court shall render a judgment thereon. 
2. In case of multiple litigants and ground for discontinuance applies against 
one of them, the case shall proceed with respect to the remaining litigants, 
unless the subject matter of the case is indivisible; in which case, litigation 
with respect to all litigants shall discontinue. 
Article 89 
A case shall be considered ripe for judgment on its merits if the litigants make 
their statements and closing arguments during the litigation hearing before the 
existence of a ground for discontinuance. 
Article 90 
Discontinuance of litigation shall entail the suspension of all procedural dates 
effective against litigants and invalidation of all proceedings occurring during 
the discontinuance. 
Article 91 
Proceedings of the case shall resume at the request of a litigant by summons 
duly  served  to  the  successor  of  the  person  against  whom  ground  for 
discontinuance applies or to the other litigant. Proceeding with the case shall 
also resume if the hearing scheduled for consideration of the case is attended 
by  the  successor  or  the  person  against  whom  ground  for  discontinuance 
  21 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
applies. 
Chapter 3: Abandonment of Litigation 
Article 92 
The plaintiff may abandon litigation by notifying his adversary by a statement 
made before the competent court clerk; an explicit statement in a memorandum 
signed by him or his agent and made available to the adverse party; or an oral 
petition during a hearing and its entry into the record. After the defendant 
submits  his defense,  abandonment  is  permitted  only  with  the  defendant’s 
approval. 
Article 93 
Abandonment shall entail nullification of all litigation proceedings, including the 
statement of claim. Such abandonment, however, shall not affect the right 
claimed. 
Part 8: Recusal and Disqualification of Judges 
Article 94 
A judge shall be barred from considering and hearing a case in the following 
cases, even without a petition by any of the litigants: 
a) If he is the husband, relative or in-law up to the fourth degree of a litigant. 
b) If he or his wife has an existing dispute with a litigant in the case or with the 
wife of a litigant. 
c) If he is an agent, guardian, trustee, or a potential heir of a litigant or if he is 
the husband of the guardian or trustee of a litigant or if he is a relative or an 
in-law up to the fourth degree of such guardian or trustee. 
d) If he, his wife, a relative thereof, an in-law in the ancestral line or a person 
for whom he is an agent or guardian, has an interest in the case. 
e) If he had provided a fatwa (religious legal opinion) or published his opinion 
on the subject of the case, or litigated on behalf of one of the litigants in the 
case, even if it were before he joined the judiciary, or if he had earlier 
considered the case as a judge, expert or arbitrator or had been a witness in 
the case or had engaged in any investigative action therein. 
Article 95 
An action or decision by a judge in any of the cases set forth in Article 94 of this 
Law shall be null and void even with the agreement of the litigants. If such 
nullification occurs with respect to an affirmed judgment, a litigant may petition 
the  Supreme  Court  to  nullify  the  judgment  and  assign  another  court  to 
reconsider the case. 
  22 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
Article 96 
1. A judge may be disqualified for any of the following reasons: 
a) If he, or his wife, has a case similar to the case before him. 
b) If he, or his wife, has a dispute with a litigant or the wife of the litigant after 
the case under consideration was filed before the judge, unless such case 
was filed with the intention of disqualifying the judge from considering the 
case pending before him. 
c) If his divorcee with whom he has a child or one of his relatives or in-laws 
up to the fourth degree has a dispute before the court with a litigant in the 
case or with the wife of the litigant, unless the case was brought with the 
intention of disqualifying him. 
d) If a litigant is his servant or the judge had regularly dined or resided with 
him, or if he had received a gift from him shortly before the lawsuit was 
filed or thereafter. 
e) If enmity or friendship exists between him and a litigant which would likely 
compromise his ability to judge impartially. 
2. A petition for disqualification shall result in a stay of the case until said 
petition is decided on. 
Article 97 
A judge may not refrain from considering a case before him unless he is barred 
from considering such case or if ground for disqualification exists. He shall 
contact his immediate superior for permission to recuse himself. The same shall 
be entered into a special record kept at the court. 
Article 98 
If there is ground for the judge to be disqualified and he fails to recuse himself, 
a litigant may request his disqualification. If the ground for disqualification is not 
stated in Article 96 of this Law, a motion for disqualification shall be filed before 
any defense or plea is presented in the case; otherwise such right is forfeited. 
Nevertheless,  such  motion  may  be  filed  if  the  grounds  therefor  occurred 
afterwards or if the petitioner proves that he had no knowledge thereof. In any 
case, no motion for disqualification may be granted after closing of arguments. 
Article 99 
A motion for disqualification shall be filed with the court administration. It shall 
be  signed  by  the  petitioner,  include  grounds  for  disqualification  and  be 
accompanied with any supporting documents. 
Article 100 
1. The court administration shall immediately notify the judge of the motion for 
disqualification, and the judge shall within four days following the notification 
respond to the chief judge of the court in writing regarding disqualification 
and grounds thereof. If he fails to respond within the prescribed period, or if 
he responds in support of the grounds for disqualification and such grounds 
are valid, or if he refutes such grounds but are proven against him, the chief 
  23 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
judge of the court shall declare him disqualified from considering the case. 
2. If the judge sought to be disqualified is a chief judge of a court of first 
instance, the motion for disqualification shall be decided by the chief judge 
of the competent court of appeals. If the judge to be disqualified is a chief 
judge of a court of appeals or a judge of the Supreme Court, the motion for 
disqualification shall be decided by the Chief Judge of the Supreme Court. 
3. If  the  chief  judge  –  as  the  case  may  be  –  denies  the  motion  for 
disqualification, he shall issue an order to this effect and such order shall be 
final. 
Part 9: Evidentiary Procedures 
Chapter 1: General Provisions 
Article 101 
Facts intended to be proven during arguments must be relevant, material to the 
case and admissible. 
Article 102 
If the evidence of a litigant is in a place beyond the court’s jurisdiction, said 
court shall deputize the judge with jurisdiction over that place to hear and verify 
such evidence. 
Article 103 
A court may abandon the evidentiary procedures it ordered provided that it 
includes grounds therefor in the record. It may also disregard the result of the 
procedure provided that it explains the grounds therefor in its judgment. 
Chapter 2: Questioning Litigants and Admissions 
Article 104 
A court may question a litigant who is present, and each litigant may request 
the questioning of his adverse party who is present. Responses shall be given 
during the same hearing, unless the court decides to grant time for a response. 
The response shall be in the presence of the person requesting the questioning. 
Article 105 
A court may, upon its own motion or the motion of a litigant, summon the 
adverse party for questioning if deemed necessary. A person whom the court 
decides to question shall attend the hearing specified in the court order. 
  24 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
Article 106 
If  a  litigant  has  an  acceptable  excuse  for  not  appearing  in  person  for 
questioning, the judge shall move to his place of residence or delegate a trusted 
person to question him. If the person sought for questioning resides outside the 
area of the court’s jurisdiction, the judge shall delegate the court of said place 
of residence to question him. 
Article 107 
If a litigant fails to appear for questioning without an acceptable excuse, or 
refuses to answer for no reason, the court may hear the evidence and draw 
whatever conclusion it deems proper from such failure to appear or refusal to 
answer.  If  the  litigant  who  fails  to  appear  or  refuses  to  answer  without 
justification has no evidence, he shall be deemed to have declined and the court 
shall take any necessary action in accordance with Sharia. 
Article 108 
The effect of a litigant's admission, during questioning or without questioning, 
shall be limited to him. The admission shall be made before the court during 
consideration of the case relating to the admission. 
Article 109 
A litigant's admission shall be valid if the litigant is legally competent and acts 
on his own volition. The admission of a person interdicted for imprudence shall 
be deemed valid in all matters not subject of interdiction according to Sharia. 
Article 110 
A litigant's admission shall not be divisible, whereby parts against him are 
admitted and parts in his favor are disregarded. Admission shall be taken as a 
whole except if it pertains to multiple facts the existence of one of which does 
not entail the existence of others.  
Chapter 3: Oath 
Article 111 
A person requesting the adverse party to take an oath shall specify the facts 
regarding which the oath is to be taken. The court shall prepare the wording of 
the oath as prescribed by Sharia. An illiterate deaf person shall take oath by 
means of an understandable sign. 
Article 112 
Taking or refusing to take oath shall be made only before the presiding judge 
during the hearing and shall have no effect outside such hearing unless there 
  25 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
is a provision to the contrary. 
Article 113 
1. A person summoned to court to take oath must appear. 
2. If the person requested to take oath appears and declines without contesting 
the admissibility or relevance of the oath to the case, he must take the oath 
immediately or require that the adverse party take the oath. If he refuses 
without contesting or fails to appear without excuse, he shall be deemed to 
have declined. 
3. If the person requested to take oath appears but contests the admissibility 
or relevance of the oath to the case, he shall provide reasons therefor. If the 
court is not satisfied, he shall take oath; otherwise he shall be deemed to 
have declined. 
Article 114 
If the person requested to take oath has a reason that prevents him from 
appearing, the court shall administer the oath at his place or assign one of its 
judges for such purpose. If he resides beyond the jurisdiction of the court, the 
court may delegate the court at his place of residence to administer the oath. 
In either case, a transcript of the oath shall be drafted and signed by the oath 
taker, the delegated or assigned judge, the clerk and the litigants present. 
Article 115 
An oath shall be taken in the presence of the person requesting it, unless he 
waives his right to appear or fails to appear without an acceptable excuse 
despite his knowledge of the hearing. 
Chapter 4: Inspection 
Article 116 
The court may, on its own motion or the motion of a litigant, decide to inspect a 
disputed item either by presenting it to the court, if possible, or proceeding to 
its location or assigning the task to one of its judges, provided that such decision 
states the time of inspection. The court may assign the court with jurisdiction 
over the disputed item to undertake the inspection; in such case, the assigned 
judge shall be notified of the assignment decision. Said decision shall contain 
all particulars pertaining to litigants, inspection place and other particulars 
necessary for clarification of the case. 
Article 117 
The court or the assigned or delegated judge shall invite the litigants at least 24 
hours prior to the scheduled time, not including travel time, by means of a 
memorandum sent through the court administration stating the venue, day and 
  26 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
hour of the meeting. 
The court may, if necessary, place the item subject of inspection under custody 
until a judgment is issued or to any other time it deems proper. 
Article 118 
The court and the judge assigned or delegated for inspection may appoint one 
or more experts to assist in the inspection. The court, the assigned or delegated 
judge may hear the testimony of any witness at the place of dispute. 
Article 119 
A transcript of inspection result shall be drafted and signed by the inspector, 
clerk, attending experts, witnesses and litigants. Said transcript shall be entered 
into the case file. 
Article 120 
Any person with interest in establishing facts that may become subject of a 
dispute before the court in the future may file a summary case before the 
competent court with venue jurisdiction for inspection of such facts – in the 
presence of persons with interest – and establishing their conditions. Request 
for inspection shall be made by means of a statement in accordance with 
standard case-filing procedures. Inspection and establishment of the condition 
shall be in accordance with the provisions of this Law. 
Chapter 5: Testimony 
Article 121 
A litigant who, during proceedings, requests proof by testimony of witnesses 
shall state in writing or orally during the hearing the facts he seeks to prove. If 
the court determines that such facts are admissible under the provisions of 
Article 101 of this Law, it shall decide to hear the witnesses, schedule a hearing 
for such purpose and ask the litigant to bring said witnesses. 
Article 122 
If a witness has an excuse for not appearing to testify, the judge shall proceed 
to his place to hear his testimony or the court may assign one of its judges for 
such purpose. If the witness resides outside the jurisdiction of the court, it shall 
delegate the court of his place of residence to hear his testimony. 
Article 123 
The testimony of each witness shall be heard individually in the presence of the 
litigants but not in the presence of other witnesses whose testimony had not 
been heard. Failure of the litigant testified against to attend a testimony shall 
  27 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
not preclude hearing it, and the same shall be read to him when he attends. 
Upon  verification  of  his  identity,  a  witness  shall  state his  full  name,  age, 
occupation, place of residence and his relationship to the litigants whether by 
kinship, employment or any other form of relationship, if applicable. 
Article 124 
Testimony shall be given orally. The use of written notes during testimony is 
permitted only with the approval of the judge provided it is justified by the nature 
of the case. A litigant against whom testimony is made may indicate to the court 
matters that may prejudice the witness or his testimony. 
Article 125 
The judge may, at his own motion or at the motion of a litigant, direct to the 
witness questions he deems conducive to revealing the truth. The judge shall 
accede to the request of the litigant in this regard unless the question is 
immaterial. 
Article 126 
If an adverse party requests time to bring witnesses absent from the hearing, 
he shall be granted the shortest period of time that is necessary in the opinion 
of the court. If he fails to bring them to the scheduled hearing or brought persons 
whose testimony was not conducive, he shall be allowed another period and 
warned that he would be deemed unable if he fails to present his witnesses. If 
he fails to present them in the third hearing, or presents some of the witnesses 
whose testimony is not conducive, the court may decide the dispute. If he does 
not present his witnesses, due to their absence or his lack of knowledge of their 
place of residence, he shall have the right to file a case when they are available. 
Article 127 
The testimony of a witness and his answers to questions directed at him shall 
be entered into the record and stated in the first person without change. It shall 
then be read to him and he may enter any amendment thereto. The amendment 
shall be entered after the text of the testimony and signed by the witness and 
the judge. 
Chapter 6: Expertise 
Article 128 
1. The court may, when necessary, decide to assign one expert or more. The 
court’s decision shall specify his task, time for submitting his report, hearing 
date and, when necessary, an advance payment for the expert's fees and 
expenses, the litigant to deposit such payment and the deadline for making 
such deposit. The court may appoint an expert to provide an oral opinion in 
  28 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
a hearing; in which case, the opinion shall be entered into the record. 
2. Regulations of this Law shall determine rules for expert fees and expenses. 
3. Courts may seek the expertise of employees of government agencies. 
4. Regulations of this Law shall define the power of the Expertise Department 
at the Ministry of Justice which shall prepare a list of experts from other than 
government employees to assist the courts. Experts included in said list shall 
satisfy the following conditions: 
a) Be of good conduct. 
b) Hold a valid license issued by the competent authority to practice his 
profession. 
5. A department named Department of Experts shall be established in each 
court, as needed, and shall comprise members of the review committee, 
engineers, surveyors, interpreters and the like and shall be supervised by 
the chief judge. 
Article 129 
If a litigant fails to deposit the required amount by the date set by the court, the 
other litigant may deposit said amount without prejudice to his right to recourse 
against the adverse party if a judgment is made in his favor. If the amount is not 
deposited by either party and deciding the case is dependent on determination 
of the experts, the court may suspend the case until the amount is deposited. 
Article 130 
If  the  litigants  agree  on  a  particular  expert,  the  court  may  approve  their 
agreement; otherwise, it may select an expert in its own discretion and shall 
provide grounds thereof. 
Article 131 
Within the three days following depositing the amount, the court shall call the 
expert and explain to him his task in accordance with the assignment decision, 
and shall provide him with a copy thereof. The expert shall have access to 
documents deposited in the case file but he may not take any of said documents 
without the court’s permission. 
Article 132 
If the expert is not a court employee, he may, within three days of receiving his 
assignment decision, ask the court to relieve him of the assigned task. In this 
case, the court shall appoint another expert. It may, in accordance with Sharia, 
make an expert, who fails to perform his task, pay the costs spent in vain.  
Article 133 
Experts may be disqualified for the same reasons that disqualify judges. The 
court  appointing  the  expert  shall  decide  on  disqualification  motion  in  an 
unappealable decision. A motion to disqualify an expert made by the litigant 
who selected him shall be denied unless the reason for disqualification occurred 
  29 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
after selection. No motion for disqualification may be granted once proceedings 
are closed. 
Article 134 
The expert shall set a date for commencing his work no later than 10 days 
following the date of receipt of the assignment decision, and shall notify the 
litigants of the place and time of the meeting in a timely manner. The expert 
shall commence his work even in the absence of the litigants provided that they 
are duly notified. 
Article 135 
The  expert  shall  prepare  a  statement  detailing  his  tasks,  attendance, 
statements and comments of the litigants as well as statements of persons 
concerned, and have it signed by them. The expert shall enclose with his 
statement a signed report providing the results of his work as well as his opinion 
and grounds thereof. If there are more than one expert, and they disagree, they 
shall present a single report in which they mention their individual opinions and 
grounds thereof. 
Article 136 
The expert shall deposit with the court his report and related statements and 
documents received. He shall inform the litigants of such deposit by registered 
mail within 24 hours following such a deposit. 
Article 137 
The court may, if it finds it necessary, summon the expert to a hearing to discuss 
his report. The court may return the report to the expert to rectify any errors or 
deficiencies, or it may assign such task to another expert or experts. 
Article 138 
The expert's opinion is for guidance and may not be binding on the court. 
Chapter 7: Writing 
Article 139 
A document used for evidence shall be either on official paper or ordinary 
paper. An official paper is a paper on which a public servant or a person 
assigned to public service records actions taken by him or instructions received 
from  concerned  parties,  pursuant  to  the  law  and  within  his  powers  and 
jurisdiction. 
An ordinary paper is a paper signed, sealed, or fingerprinted by the person 
issuing it. 
  30 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
Article 140 
The court shall determine the effects of any alteration, deletion, insertion or 
other material defects in a document on its validity as evidence. 
If the court finds the validity of a document questionable, it may ask the public 
servant who issued it or the person who drafted it for clarification. 
Article 141 
Challenge to official documents may not be allowed except by claiming forgery, 
unless the content is in violation of Sharia. 
Article 142 
If the person to whom the contents of a document is ascribed denies that the 
handwriting, signature, fingerprint or seal belongs to him or to his successor or 
deputy  while  the  document  is  material  to  the  dispute  and  the  facts  and 
documents of the case are not sufficient to convince the court of the validity of 
the handwriting, signature, fingerprint or seal, the court may order a questioned 
document examination (QDE) to be made under its supervision by one or more 
experts to be named in the QDE decision. 
Article 143 
The denied handwriting, signature, fingerprint or seal shall be compared with 
the established handwriting, signature, fingerprint or seal of the person to whom 
the document is ascribed. 
Article 144 
The disputed document shall be signed by the judge and the clerk indicating 
that they have examined it. Transcript shall be entered into the record showing 
adequately the condition and description of the document. Such transcript shall 
be signed by the judge, the clerk and the litigants. 
Article 145 
Litigants shall appear on the date set by the judge to present documents in 
order for the court to select from among them the documents suitable for QDE. 
If the litigant upon whom the burden of proof falls fails to appear for no excuse, 
a decision forfeiting his right to use the disputed document as evidence may be 
made.  If  his  adverse  party  fails  to  appear,  the  documents  presented  for 
comparison may be deemed valid. 
Article 146 
The judge and the clerk shall affix their signatures on the QDE documents prior 
to examination, and the transcript shall so indicate. 
  31 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
Article 147 
If the original official document exists, a copy thereof issued by a public servant 
within his competence and attested as a true copy of the original shall have the 
force of the original official document to the extent that he determines it to be 
true as the original. An attested copy shall be considered a true copy of the 
original unless disputed by a litigant; in such case, the copy shall be compared 
against the original. No copy shall be admissible in court if it is not attested to 
be a true copy of the original. 
Article 148 
A  person  holding  an  ordinary  document  may  sue  the  person  whom  the 
document establishes a right against to make him acknowledge such right, 
even if the obligation set forth therein is not due at the time of the litigation. This 
shall be by means of a petition filed in accordance with standard case-filing 
procedures.  If  the  defendant  appears  and  admits  the  authenticity  of  the 
document, the court shall record his admission. In case of denial, the court shall 
order verification under the aforementioned procedures. 
Article 149 
When necessary, the court may, on its own motion or the motion of a litigant, 
order as follows: 
1. Obtain documents or papers from government agencies in the Kingdom if 
the litigants are unable to do so. The litigant may indicate the content of such 
documents and their bearing on the case. 
2. Include any third party in order to compel him to produce documents or 
papers in his possession. The court may also refuse so if the holder has a 
legitimate interest in refusing to present the same. 
Article 150 
A claim of forgery may be made at any stage of the case by means of a petition 
to  the  court  setting  forth  all  places  of  forgery  claimed  and  verification 
procedures required for proof. A person charged with forgery may request 
verification process be suspended at any stage by waiving his right to use the 
disputed document; in such case, the court may, if the claimant of forgery so 
requests for a legitimate interest, order entry of the document into the record or 
keeping it on file. 
Article 151 
A claimant of forgery shall deliver to the court the disputed document if in his 
possession or the copy served to him. If the document is in the possession of 
the adverse party, the judge, upon reviewing the petition, shall order him to 
deliver such document to the court. If the adverse party declines to deliver the 
document and the court is unable to find it, it shall be deemed non-existent. 
This shall not preclude taking any future action with respect to said document. 
  32 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
Article 152 
If the claim of forgery is material to the dispute while the facts and documents 
of the case are insufficient to convince the court whether the document is 
genuine or forged, and the court determines that the investigation requested is 
material to the case, the court shall order such investigation. 
Article 153 
If a document is established to be forged, the court shall send said document 
and a copy of the relevant transcripts to the competent authority to take 
necessary penal action. 
Article 154 
The court may, even if no claim of forgery is made before it, exclude any 
document if it appears from its condition or from the circumstances of the case 
to be forged or suspected to be forged. The court may also exclude any 
document of questionable validity. In such cases, the court shall provide in its 
judgment  the  circumstances  and  presumptions  upon  which  it  based  its 
judgment. 
Article 155 
A person who fears that a forged document may be used against him may sue 
the person holding or benefiting from such document. This shall be by means 
of  a  petition  filed  in  accordance  with  regular  case-filing  procedures.  In 
investigating this case, the court shall observe the aforementioned rules and 
procedures. 
Chapter 8: Presumptions 
Article 156 
A judge may draw one or more presumptions from the facts of the case or from 
questioning litigants or witnesses as grounds for his judgment, or complement 
incomplete  established  evidence,  so  that  he  becomes  satisfied  with  the 
evidence to render judgment. 
Article 157 
Each litigant may rebut the presumption inferred by the judge; in such case, the 
presumption loses its value as proof. 
Article 158 
In  a  dispute  over  ownership,  possession  of  movable  property  shall  be  a 
rebuttable presumption of ownership by the possessor. The adverse party may 
prove otherwise. 
  33 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
Part 10: Judgments 
Chapter 1: Rendering Judgments 
Article 159 
Upon completion of arguments, the court shall decide the case forthwith or 
postpone rendering judgment to another hearing and inform the litigants of the 
closing of arguments and of the date for pronouncing the judgment. 
Article 160 
In  case  of  multiple  judges,  deliberations  shall  be  in  a  closed  session. 
Notwithstanding Article 162 of this Law, only judges who heard the arguments 
may participate in the deliberations. 
Article 161 
During deliberations, the court may not hear clarifications from a litigant except 
in the presence of the other litigant. 
Article 162 
If several judges consider the case, judgment shall be rendered unanimously 
or by majority opinion. The minority shall be the first to enter its opinion in the 
record. The majority shall explain in the record its point of view in response to 
the view of the minority. If no majority is reached or if opinions diverge into more 
than two, the chief judge shall assign a judge to support one of the opinions so 
that  a  majority  is  reached  for  judgment.  If  this  proves  unattainable,  the 
Chairman  of  the  Supreme  Judicial  Council  shall  assign  a  judge  for  such 
purpose. 
Article 163 
Upon closing of arguments and rendering of judgment in the case, the judgment 
shall be entered into the record preceded by the grounds on which it was based, 
and signed by the judge or judges who participated in consideration of the case. 
Article 164 
The judgment shall be pronounced by reading its wording, or its wording and 
grounds in an open hearing. The judges who participated in the deliberations 
shall be present when the judgment is pronounced. If one of the judges is 
unable to attend, his absence shall not affect the judgment if he has signed the 
judgment entered into the record. 
  34 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
Article 165 
Upon pronouncement of the judgment, the court shall inform the litigants of the 
prescribed  manner  and  deadlines  for  appeal.  Guardians,  trustees, 
administrators, representatives of government agencies and the like shall also 
be informed – if the judgment is not in favor of their principals or less than what 
they asked for – that the judgment must be appealed or reviewed and that the 
case will be referred to the court of appeals. 
Article 166 
1. Within a period not exceeding 20 days from the date of pronouncement of 
the judgment, the court shall issue a decree containing a summary of the 
case, responses, valid defenses, verbatim testimony of witnesses along with 
attestation of their characters, oaths, names of judges who participated in 
the judgment, names of litigants, agents and witnesses, name of the court 
which considered the case, number and date of the case record, grounds 
and wording of the judgment, date of pronouncement, omitting redundant 
and repetitious sentences that have no bearing on the judgment. Said decree 
shall be signed by the judge or judges who participated in the judgment. 
2. Each judgment shall be entered in the judgments record, unless otherwise 
decided by the Supreme Judicial Council. 
3. A  copy  of  the  judgment  decree  shall  be  delivered  within  a  period  not 
exceeding the period provided for in paragraph 1 of this Article. 
Article 167 
If a judge’s jurisdiction over a case lapses before a judgment is rendered, his 
successor may continue with the case from the point where the proceedings of 
his predecessor ended. He shall read to the litigants what is in the record, which 
he shall honor if signed by the previous judge along with the signatures of 
litigants and witnesses. If proceedings entered into the record are not signed 
by  one  or  more  of  the  litigants  or  the  judge  and  the  litigants  have  not 
acknowledged the same, the arguments shall be heard anew.  
Article 168 
1. The judgment decree which governs execution shall be sealed with the seal 
of the court after adding the following text: All ministries and government 
agencies shall enforce this judgment by all applicable legal means, even if it 
requires the use of force by the police.  
2. The judgment decree shall be delivered only to the litigant with interest in its 
execution. Copies of the judgment without the execution statement may be 
given to any party with interest. 
Article 169 
The judgment shall be subject to expeditious execution, with or without bail as 
the judge may deem fit, in the following circumstances:  
a) Judgments in urgent matters. 
b) If the judgment involves alimony, breastfeeding cost, accommodation, child 
  35 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
visitation, surrender of a child to his custodian, returning a woman to her 
mahrahm or dissolution of marriage. 
c) If the judgment involves payment of wages of a servant, craftsman, laborer, 
breastfeeding woman or custodian. 
Article 170 
A court before which an appeal is filed may, if it determines that the grounds for 
such appeal would result in reversal of the judgment, order stay of execution if 
it fears that it could lead to grave harm. 
Chapter 2: Correction and Interpretation of Judgments 
Article 171 
The court shall, by a decision it issues pursuant to a petition by a litigant or upon 
its own motion, correct any material errors whether written or mathematical in 
the judgment decree. Such correction shall, upon entry of the decision into the 
case record, be made on the original decree and signed by the judge or judges 
of the issuing court. 
Article 172 
If the court rejects the correction, the objection thereto shall be in conjunction 
with the objection to the judgment itself. A decision to make corrections may be 
independently objected to through regular procedures of objection. 
Article 173 
If the wording of the judgment is vague or confusing, the litigants may file a 
petition  for  an  interpretation  from  the  court  rendering  such  judgment,  in 
accordance with applicable case-filing procedures. 
Article 174 
The interpretation of judgment shall be added to the original decree and signed 
and sealed by the judge or judges of the issuing court. The interpretation shall 
be deemed complementary to the original decree and shall be subject to 
applicable rules of appeal.  
Article 175 
If a court neglects to decide on motions related to subject matter, the party with 
interest may petition the court to order the adverse party to appear before it, in 
accordance with applicable procedures, and rule thereon. 
  36 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
Part 11: Methods of Objecting to Judgments 
Chapter 1: General Provisions 
Article 176 
Methods  of  objection  to  judgments  are  appeal,  cassation  and  petition  for 
reconsideration. 
Article 177 
Only the party against whom judgment is rendered or whose petitions are not 
fully awarded may object to the judgment, unless the law provides otherwise. 
Article 178 
1. No objection may be made to judgments issued before the case is decided 
and  with  which  the  litigation  does  not  end  wholly  or  partly  except  in 
conjunction with the objection to the judgment on the merits.  Filing an 
objection before rendering a decision on the merits may be permitted against 
a decision to stay the case and against provisional and summary rulings and 
judgments subject to execution by force as well as judgments of lack of 
jurisdiction.  
2. Objection to temporary and expeditious judgments and judgments subject to 
execution by force shall not entail stay of execution. 
Article 179 
1. The objection period to a judgment shall commence from the date a copy of 
the judgment decree is delivered to the person against whom the judgment 
was rendered and his signature was entered into the record or from the date 
set for receiving such copy if he is not present. If he fails to attend to receive 
a copy of the judgment decree, said copy shall be deposited in the case file 
on the same date, marking such date in the record. Such deposit shall be 
deemed the commencement of the period for objection. The objection period 
to a judgment in absentia or a revised judgment before the Supreme Court 
shall commence from the date it is communicated to the person against 
whom it was rendered or his agent.  
2. If the person against whom the judgment was rendered is imprisoned or 
detained, the authority in charge of him shall bring him to court to receive a 
copy of the judgment decree within the specified period. Said authority shall 
also bring him to file his objection within the specified period. 
Article 180 
The period for objection shall be stayed upon the death or loss of competence 
of the person filing the objection or loss of capacity of his agent. Such stay shall 
continue until the judgment is communicated to the heirs or their representative, 
or the contingency ends. 
  37 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
Article 181 
If  a  judgment  is  objected  to  on  grounds  of  lack  of  jurisdiction,  the  court 
considering such objection shall limit its consideration to jurisdiction. 
Article 182 
Reversal of judgments shall entail nullification of all subsequent decisions and 
proceedings based on the reversed judgment. 
Article 183 
If part of a judgment is reversed, other parts shall remain enforceable, unless 
the judgment is indivisible. 
Article 184 
Courts of appeal and the Supreme Court shall be governed by the rules and 
procedures  established  before  courts  of  first  instance,  unless  otherwise 
provided for in this Law. 
Chapter 2: Appeal 
Article 185 
1. All judgments rendered by courts of first instance shall be appealable except 
for judgments in petty cases as determined by the Supreme Judicial Council. 
2. The Supreme Judicial Council shall define the judgments for which revision 
by the court of appeals shall suffice. 
3. Any person against whom an appealable judgment is rendered may, within 
the statutory objection period, file for revision by the court of appeals without 
a hearing, unless the adverse party petitions for an appeal. In all cases, the 
court of appeals may, on its own motion, consider the case by means of a 
hearing.  
4. If  the  person  against  whom  a  judgment  is  rendered  is  an  endowment 
administrator, trustee, guardian or representative of a government agency or 
the like and fails to file an appeal within the statutory period, or if said person 
is absent and cannot be notified of the judgment, the court shall refer the 
judgment to the court of appeals for revision, regardless of the subject of the 
judgment. This shall not include the following: 
a) A  judgment  issued  by  the  competent  court  against  the  General 
Commission  for  Guardianship  over  Property  of  Minors  and  those  of 
Similar Status to enforce a prior final judgment. 
b) A judgment regarding a sum of money which a person deposited for the 
benefit  of  another  person  or  his  heirs,  unless  the  depositor  or  his 
representative objects thereto. 
  38 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
Article 186 
New petitions shall not be accepted in an appeal and the court shall dismiss 
them on its own motion. 
Article 187 
The period for filing an appeal or a petition for revision shall be 30 days, with 
the exception of judgments rendered in summary cases which shall be 10 days. 
If an appellant fails to submit his appeal within said periods, his right to appeal 
or to file a petition for revision shall be forfeited and the competent court shall 
record the same upon the expiry of the objection period in the case record. A 
note on the judgment decree and record shall be made, indicating that the 
judgment is final, without prejudice to the provision of Article 185(4) of this Law. 
Article 188 
1. An appeal or a petition for revision shall be made by means of a brief 
deposited with the court rendering the judgment. Such brief shall contain the 
appealed judgment, its number, date, grounds for objection, claims of the 
appellant and his signature as well as the date of depositing the brief. 
2. The court shall enter the brief in the relevant record on the date of deposit 
and refer the same immediately to the court rendering the judgment. 
Article 189 
Upon reviewing the brief, the court which rendered the appealed judgment may 
reconsider such judgment in terms of grounds for appeal without a hearing, 
unless  necessary.  The  court  shall,  at  its  discretion,  affirm  or  amend  its 
judgment. If the court affirms the judgment, it shall refer it along with a copy of 
the case record and all papers to the court of appeals. If the court amends the 
judgment, the  amended judgment shall be notified to the litigants and be 
governed by applicable procedures. 
Article 190 
1. The court of appeals shall schedule a hearing to consider the appeal or 
petition for revision if it determines to consider the same by means of a 
hearing. If the appellant or the person filing the petition for revision fails to 
appear before the court after being notified of the date of the hearing, and 
60 days have lapsed without making a request to proceed with the case or 
failing to appear in court after commencement of proceedings, the court 
shall, on its own motion, rule that his right to appeal or to file a petition for 
revision is deemed forfeited, without prejudice to the provision of Article 
185(4) of this Law. 
2. The court of appeals shall consider the appeal or petition for revision based 
on the documents provided in the case file and new defense or evidence 
presented by litigants in support of their grounds for appeal as stated in the 
brief. Upon hearing the testimony of litigants with respect to the appeal or 
petition for revision, the court shall, if it decides to consider the case by 
means of a hearing, affirm or reverse the judgment either wholly or partly 
  39 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
and rule on the reversed part. 
Article 191 
If the court of appeals, in cases reviewed without hearings, determines that the 
consequences of the text of the judgment are consistent with Sharia, it shall 
affirm  the  judgment  and  provide  comments  not  requiring  the  reversal  of 
judgment. If it reverses the judgment wholly or partly, it shall rule on the 
reversed part after hearing the litigants. 
Article 192 
If the court of appeals nullifies the judgment of lack of jurisdiction rendered by 
the court of first instance, or admits a partial defense resulting in a stay of action, 
it shall refer the case to the court rendering the judgment for consideration of 
the merits. 
Chapter 3: Cassation 
Article 193 
A  party  may  apply  to  the  Supreme  Court  for  reversal  of  judgments  and 
decisions rendered or affirmed by the courts of appeal if the objection is based 
on any of the following grounds: 
1. Violation of provisions of Sharia or laws not conflicting therewith. 
2. Issuance of a judgment by a court not properly formed in accordance with 
the law. 
3. Issuance of a judgment by an incompetent court or circuit. 
4. Error in characterization or description of a case. 
Article 194 
The period for filing a petition for reversal of judgment shall be 30 days, 
excluding judgments rendered in summary cases, the period for which shall be 
15 days. If an appellant fails to file his objection within said periods, his right to 
such petition shall be deemed forfeited. 
Article 195 
1. A petition for reversal of judgment shall be made through a brief filed with 
the court of appeals which rendered or affirmed the judgment. Such appeal 
shall include the name and address of each litigant, the judgment objected 
to,  its  number,  date,  grounds  for  objection,  requests,  signature  of  the 
appellant and date of filing. 
2. The court of appeals shall enter the brief in the relevant record on the date 
of filing and refer the same along with a copy of the case record and all 
documents to the Supreme Court within a period not exceeding three days 
from the end of the objection period. 
  40 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
Article 196 
An objection before the Supreme Court shall not stay execution of judgment 
unless otherwise provided by law. The court may order provisional stay of 
execution of judgment if petitioned to do so in the brief and if execution of said 
judgment would result in grave and irreparable harm. If the court orders stay of 
execution, it may require a security or a solvent guarantor, or whatever it deems 
appropriate, to protect the rights of the respondent. 
Article 197 
The Supreme Court shall consider the formalities of the appeal with respect to 
the information provided for in Article 195(1) of this Law, and whether said 
appeal is made by an eligible person. The court shall decide whether to grant 
the objection or dismiss it in form. If the appeal is dismissed in form, the court 
shall render a separate decision to this effect. 
Article 198 
If the Supreme Court grants the objection in form, it shall determine its subject 
matter based on available documents, without discussing the facts of the case. 
If the court is not satisfied with the grounds of the objection, it shall affirm the 
judgment or reverse it in whole or in part – as the case may be – stating grounds 
therefor, and return the case to the rendering court to rule thereon anew by a 
different judge. If the judgment is appealed for the second time and the case is 
ready for judgment, the court shall rule thereon and its judgment shall be 
deemed final. 
Article 199 
Grounds not stated in the memorandum of appeal may not be invoked before 
the Supreme Court, unless such grounds pertain to mandatory aspects of the 
Law. In such case, the court shall, upon its own motion, rule accordingly. 
Chapter 4: Petition for Reconsideration 
Article 200 
1. Any litigant may petition for reconsideration of final judgments in the following 
circumstances: 
a) If the judgment was based on documents that were subsequently found 
to  be  forged  or  based  on  a  testimony  that  was  subsequently  ruled 
perjurious by the competent authority. 
b) If the petitioner, after the judgment was rendered, obtained conclusive 
documents  for  the  case  that  he  was  unable  to  produce  before  the 
rendering of the judgment. 
c) If an act of fraud was committed by the adverse party which would have a 
bearing on the judgment. 
  41 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
d) If the judgment awards what the litigants did not ask for or more than what 
they asked for. 
e) If the wording of the judgment was contradictory; 
f)  If the judgment was in absentia. 
g) If the judgment was rendered against a person not properly represented 
in the case. 
2. Anyone who was bound by the judgment and was neither joined nor did he 
intervene in the case may petition for reconsideration of final judgments. 
Article 201 
The period for a petition for reconsideration shall be 30 days commencing from 
the day on which the petitioner is established to have known of the forgery of 
the  documents,  the  testimony  was  ruled  to  be  perjurious,  the  document 
provided for in Article 200(1)(b) of this Law appeared, or fraud was discovered. 
The period for cases provided for in Article 200(1)(d, e, f and g) of this Law shall 
commence from the time the judgment was communicated. The period for the 
case provided for in Article 200(2) of this Law shall commence on the date the 
petitioner becomes aware of the judgment.  
Article 202 
1. A petition for reconsideration shall be made through a brief filed with the court 
which rendered the judgment. Such brief shall indicate the judgment sought 
to be reconsidered, its number, date and grounds for reconsideration. The 
court administration shall, on the date of deposit, enter the brief in the 
relevant record. If the judgment is affirmed by the Supreme Court or court of 
appeals, the court which rendered the judgment shall refer the petition for 
reconsideration to the court which has affirmed the judgment to consider the 
petition. The court shall, as the case may be, issue a decision granting or 
denying the petition for reconsideration. If the petition is granted, the case 
shall be considered by the court which rendered the judgment and shall notify 
the parties thereof. If the petition is denied, the petitioner may object to such 
denial in accordance with applicable procedures, unless the decision was 
rendered by the Supreme Court. 
2. Filing a petition for reconsideration shall not stay execution of judgment. 
Nonetheless, the court considering said petition may order stay of execution 
of judgment if petitioned to do so and if execution of said judgment would 
result in grave and irreparable harm. If the court orders stay of execution, it 
may  require  a  security  or  a  solvent  guarantor,  or  whatever  it  deems 
appropriate, to protect the rights of the respondent. 
Article 203 
Judgments rendered on the merits of the case by a court other than the 
Supreme Court, upon a petition for reconsideration, may be objected to by 
means of appeal or request for reversal, as the case may be. 
Article 204 
1. A decision denying the petition and a judgment issued on the merits of the 
  42 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
case upon granting such petition may not be objected to by means of a 
petition for reconsideration. 
2. Any litigant may file another petition for reconsideration on grounds not 
previously considered, as provided for in Article 200 of this Law. 
Part 12: Summary Proceedings 
Article 205 
The court with jurisdiction over consideration of the subject shall provisionally 
consider the case on the merits in urgent matters related to the same case that 
the lapse of time may affect. Such decision shall not affect the merits of the 
case, regardless of whether the motion for a provisional action was made 
independently or as part of the original case. 
Article 206 
Summary cases shall include the following: 
a) Cases of inspection to establish a condition. 
b) Cases of an injunction banning travel. 
c) Cases of an injunction banning interference with possession and recovery of 
possession. 
d) Cases of suspension of new actions. 
e) Cases requesting receivership. 
f)  Cases relating to daily wages. 
g) Other cases deemed urgent by law. 
Article 207 
The period for appearance in summary cases shall be 24 hours. Such period 
may, in compelling circumstances, be reduced by court order. 
Article 208 
A claimant may, during consideration of the case or immediately before it, file 
a summary case before the competent court to ban his adverse party from 
travel. The judge shall issue an injunction banning travel in case of a flight risk. 
In such case, the claimant shall provide security, as determined by the judge, 
to indemnify the defendant if the case is found to have no merit. A judgment 
indemnifying the defendant for damages resulting from the banning of his travel 
shall be appended to the judgment on the merit. 
Article 209 
1.  A person having a prima facie claim may file a summary case before the 
court having jurisdiction over the merits of the case for injunction against 
interference with possession or recovery of possession. The judge shall 
issue an injunction against interference with possession or recovery of 
  43 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
possession if deemed justifiable. Such an injunction shall have no effect on 
the merits of the claim, nor be deemed as evidence therefor. A person 
disputing the basis of such claim may resort to court as provided for in this 
Law. 
2.  A possessory action may not be combined with a claim of ownership; 
otherwise, the possessory action shall be deemed forfeited. A defendant in 
a possessory action may not base his defense on a claim of ownership and 
his claim of ownership may not be granted prior to determination of the 
possessory  action  and  execution  of  judgment;  unless  he  actually 
relinquishes his possession to the adverse party. 
Article 210 
A person harmed by an unlawful action may file before the competent court a 
summary suit to halt said action. The judge shall issue an injunction if he is 
convinced of the justifications. Such an injunction shall have no effect on the 
original right, nor may it serve as evidence therefor. A person disputing the 
same may resort to court as provided for in this Law. 
Article 211 
A receivership suit involving disputed movable or immovable property where 
the right thereto is not established shall be filed with the court having jurisdiction 
over the subject matter. The judge may order placement under receivership if 
the party having an interest in the movable or immovable property presents 
reasonable cause that an imminent danger is feared if the property remains in 
the hands of its possessor. The receiver shall undertake to hold and manage 
the property and return it along with the proceeds derived therefrom to the 
person whose right thereto is established. 
Article 212 
The appointment of a receiver shall be by agreement of all concerned parties. 
The  judge  shall  make  the  appointment  if  no  agreement  is  reached.  The 
judgment for receivership shall specify the obligations, rights and powers of the 
receiver. If the judgment is silent on the matter, the provisions of this Law shall 
apply. 
Article 213 
The receiver shall safeguard the property under his custody and manage it as 
necessary. He shall exercise due diligence and may not directly or indirectly 
delegate in the performance of his duties, wholly or partly, a concerned party 
without the consent of the remaining parties. 
Article 214 
In other than management matters, the receiver may only act with the consent 
of all parties concerned or upon permission from the judge. 
  44 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
Article 215 
A receiver may receive the remuneration specified in the judgment, unless he 
waives the same. 
Article 216 
The receiver shall maintain orderly books and records. The judge shall require 
him, when necessary, to use books carrying the court stamp. He shall, at 
intervals specified by the judge, or annually at least, give the concerned parties 
a  financial  statement  along  with  supporting  documents.  If  the  receiver  is 
appointed by court, he shall deposit a copy of such statement with the court. 
Article 217 
Receivership shall end by agreement of all the parties concerned or by a court 
judgment. The receiver shall then return the property under his custody to the 
person chosen by the concerned parties or appointed by the judge. 
Part 13: Declarations 
Chapter 1: General Provisions 
Article 218 
1. Provisions relating to recusal of judges shall apply to establishment of title 
and other declarations if the same are disputed or the relevant judge has 
direct interest therein. 
2. Provisions  relating  to  cancellation,  suspension,  discontinuation  and 
abandonment of a lawsuit shall apply to disputed declarations. 
3. Provisions relating to correction and interpretation of judgments shall apply 
to declarations. 
4. The regulations of this Law shall define the controls and procedures relating 
to  the  division  of  common  property  within  the  jurisdiction  of  the  court, 
including distribution of inheritance, procedures for appointing liquidators, 
service  of  notices,  summoning,  announcement  and  eviction  from  real 
property. 
Chapter 2: Endowments and Minors 
Article 219 
A judge may not register the establishment of an endowment unless ownership 
of said endowment by the endower is established and upon verification that his 
record is free from any encumbrances to such registration. 
  45 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
Article 220 
An applicant for endowment registration shall submit an application to the 
competent court supported by official documents that establish ownership of 
the property to be endowed. 
Article 221 
Endowments without registered title deeds shall be established in accordance 
with applicable rules and procedures for establishment of titles. 
Article 222 
Subject  to  the  provisions  of  ownership  of  real  property  by  non-Saudis, 
endowment of real property owned by non-Saudis – within the Kingdom – may 
not be registered unless the following conditions are satisfied:  
a) the endowment is in compliance with Sharia; 
b) the endowment is for a continuing charity cause; 
c) the endowment is for Saudi individuals or Saudi charities;  
d) the endowment administrator is a Saudi citizen; 
e) the endowment deed provides for the right of the General Endowment 
Council to oversee the endowment; and 
f)  the endowment is subject to the regulations governing endowments in the 
Kingdom. 
Article 223 
1. If public interest requires a public endowment to be sold, substituted or 
transferred, the administrator may do so upon permission by the court where 
said endowment is located, and shall establish legitimate grounds for selling, 
substituting or transferring said endowment, provided that the proceeds are 
used, without delay, to acquire a similar property.  
2. If interest dictates disposal of a private endowment by means of sale, 
exchange,  transfer,  pledge,  borrowing,  construction,  purchase  of  a 
substitute, parceling, merger, lease for more than 10 years or trading in the 
proceeds thereof  – if the price is insufficient to buy a substitute  –  the 
administrator may do so upon the competent court permission. 
Article 224 
If the guardian is other than the father and there is a need to act on behalf of a 
minor or an absentee in the purchase, sale, division, pledge or merger of a real 
property, or borrowing for him or disposal, for any reason, of his money that is 
deposited by the court with the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency or a branch 
thereof or with a local bank, or if the person placed under guardianship is a 
partner in the companies whose articles of incorporation are to be registered or 
their capitals to be increased, the guardian or trustee may not undertake such 
actions without the competent court permission. 
  46 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
Article 225 
1. All  judgments  permitting  the  actions  of  guardians,  trustees  and 
administrators shall be revised by the court of appeals, with the exception of 
judgments for pledging, borrowing, registration of articles of incorporation, 
increase of corporate capitals and purchase of real property for minors, 
unless otherwise determined by the Supreme Judicial Council. 
2. The judgment of the court of appeals on revision of judgments referred to in 
paragraph 1 of this Article shall be deemed final. 
3. If the court of appeals reverses the judgments referred to in paragraph 1 of 
this Article, it shall rule on the same after hearing the declaration and request 
for disposal. 
Article 226 
1. If an endowed real property or one belonging to a minor or an absentee is 
expropriated for public interest, or if any of said parties has a common share 
therein, the same shall be executed by a notary public, unless the substitute 
is a real property; in which case, it shall be permitted and executed by the 
competent court. 
2. The competent court shall deposit the sale proceeds of the real property with 
the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency or a branch thereof or with a local bank 
until disbursement thereof is permitted by the competent court. 
Chapter 3: Establishment of Title 
Article 227 
Establishment of title is a request for a deed establishing ownership of real 
property not prompted by a contention from an adverse party, though it does 
not preclude hearing the case concerning the right, if any. 
Article 228 
Subject to the provisions of ownership of real property by non-Saudis, any 
person claiming ownership of real property, whether a land or a building, shall 
be entitled to request a deed establishing title from the court where the real 
property is located. 
Article 229 
An application for establishment of title deed shall be made pursuant to a 
petition detailing the type, location, boundaries, sides and area of the real 
property – pursuant to a certified survey report – along with the ownership 
document, if any. 
Article 230 
The court shall verify the location, boundaries, sides and area of the real 
  47 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
property.  The  judge,  or  his  designee,  shall  inspect  the  property  with  an 
engineer, if necessary. He shall prepare a report thereon and enter the same 
in the title establishment record. 
Article 231 
Prior  to  recording  the  declaration  and  initiating  the  relevant  evidentiary 
procedures thereof, the court shall communicate in writing – with the objective 
of identifying any objection to the declarations – to the Ministry of Municipal and 
Rural Affairs, Ministry of Islamic Affairs, Endowments, Da’wah and Guidance, 
and the Ministry of Finance; and with respect to property outside cities and 
villages, to the National Guard, Ministry of Defense, Saudi Commission for 
Tourism and Antiquities, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Petroleum and 
Mineral Resources, Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Water and Electricity and 
the Saudi Wildlife Authority or branches thereof or entities acting on their behalf 
as well as other agencies defined by the Prime Minister. The court shall also 
order the publication of the title establishment application in a newspaper 
published in the area where the real property is located. If no such newspaper 
exists, the court shall order publication in the newspaper having the largest 
circulation in the area. 
Article 232 
In addition to the provisions of Article 231 of this Law, the court shall seek the 
approval of the Prime Minister if petitioned to establish title to a land that has 
never been cultivated. 
Article 233 
1. If 60 days lapse after notifying the government agencies concerned or after 
publication, as prescribed in Article 231 of this Law, without objection, the 
court shall proceed with establishing the title unless there is a Sharia or legal 
impediment. 
2. Responses from agencies addressed along with their reference numbers 
and dates as well as name of the newspaper where the title establishment 
application was published, its issue number, date and page number shall be 
entered into the title establishment record. 
3. Upon completion of title establishment procedures, the title establishment 
deed shall be executed and shall include essential details provided in the 
title establishment record. Said deed shall be signed and stamped by the 
judge establishing the title and shall be entered in the relevant record. 
Article 234 
1. If a dispute arises over a real property with no registered deed, the court 
shall,  if  said  property  falls  within  its  jurisdiction,  proceed  with  the 
establishment of the title while considering the case in accordance with 
procedures stipulated in this Law, unless urgent settlement of the dispute is 
required; in which case, the dispute shall be decided on without proceeding 
with establishment of title. The judgment shall state that it shall not have the 
  48 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
same effect as the title establishment deeds. The judgment, upon becoming 
final, shall be kept in the case file and the winning party shall receive a copy 
thereof certified by the judge and chief judge. 
2. If the disputed property is beyond the court’s jurisdiction, the court shall rule 
on the matter without proceeding with title establishment and shall refer the 
case file, along with the judgment deed, to the court having jurisdiction over 
the property in order to proceed with title establishment. 
Article 235 
No title deed may be issued for lands and buildings in Mina and other Hajj sites. 
If  litigation  arises  regarding  any  such  matter,  whether  over  ownership  or 
usufruct of real property, and a party produced a supporting document, the 
court shall forward a copy of the litigation record and the supporting document 
to the Supreme Court, without issuing a deed. 
Chapter 4: Establishment of Death and Determination of Heirs 
Article 236 
An applicant for establishment of death and determination of heirs shall submit 
a declaration to that effect to the competent court. The declaration shall include 
the name of the deceased, his last address, date, time and place of death and 
witnesses to the death or a medical report to this effect from a medical center 
in the area. As to determination of heirs, the deed shall include names of heirs, 
their competencies, their relationship to the deceased, and witnesses for deaths 
occurring after the effective date of the Law of Civil Procedures promulgated by 
Royal Decree No. (M/21) dated 20/05/1421H. 
Article 237 
The court, if necessary, may instruct the declarant to publish the application for 
establishment of death and determination of heirs in a newspaper published in 
the area of the deceased. If no such newspaper exists, the court may order 
publication in the newspaper having the largest circulation in the area. The court 
may also request the relevant administrative governor to investigate such 
request. Responses provided in the investigation shall be signed by the persons 
providing them and shall be certified by the administrative agency conducting 
the investigation. 
Article 238 
The judge shall investigate the matter personally if he finds the results of the 
investigation insufficient. Upon completion of procedures, the judge shall issue 
a death deed if death is established. Such deed shall determine the heirs, their 
names, capacities and dates of birth, in accordance with Sharia. 
  49 

NEW PAGE

Law of Civil Procedure 
 
 
 
Article 239 
The deed establishing death and determining heirs in the said form shall be 
authoritative unless a judgment to the contrary is rendered. 
Part 14: Concluding Provisions 
Article 240 
1. The Implementing Regulations of this Law shall be drafted by the Ministry of 
Justice  and  the  Supreme  Judicial  Council,  with  the  participation  of  the 
Ministry of Interior with respect to relevant provisions, and shall be issued 
pursuant to a decision by the Minister of Justice upon coordination with the 
Council, within a period not exceeding 90 days from the date of entry into 
force of this Law. Said Regulations may be amended only in the same 
manner of its promulgation. 
2. Competent departments at courts, whether existing or to be established, 
shall assume their administrative duties in accordance with this Law and its 
Implementing Regulations. 
Article 241 
This Law shall supersede the Law of Civil Procedures promulgated by Royal 
Decree  No.  (M/21)  dated  20/05/1421H  and  shall  repeal  any  conflicting 
provisions. 
Article 242 
This Law shall enter into force following the date of its publication in the Official 
Gazette. 
 
 
 
  50 

NEW PAGE
Movable Property Security Law 
 
Royal Decree No. M/94 
April 8, 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Translation of Saudi Laws 

NEW PAGE

Movable Property Security Law 
 
 
 
NOTE: 
The translation of Saudi laws takes the following into consideration: 
•  Words used in the singular form include the plural and vice versa.  
•  Words used in the masculine form include the feminine.  
•  Words used in the present tense include the present as well as the future.  
•  The word “person” or “persons” and their related pronouns (he, his, him, they, 
their, them) refer to a natural and legal person.  
 
   
  2 

NEW PAGE

Movable Property Security Law 
 
 
 
Movable Property Security Law 
Chapter 1: Definitions 
Article 1 
In this Law, the following terms and phrases shall have the meanings assigned 
thereto: 
Law: Movable Property Security Law.  
Regulations: The Implementing Regulations of this Law.  
Ministry: Ministry of Commerce. 
Minister: Minister of Commerce.  
Security Interest: An in rem right over a collateral provided or agreed to be 
provided as security for the performance of an obligation.  
Collateral: A movable property provided or agreed to be provided as security 
for the performance of an obligation.  
Secured Obligation: An obligation for which a collateral is provided to secure 
the performance thereof, including a financial obligation—whether monetary or 
non-monetary, an obligation to perform or refrain from a certain action, and all 
kinds of current and future obligations, whether such obligations are fixed or 
conditional.  
Secured Creditor: A natural or legal person for whose benefit a security 
interest is provided.  
Guarantor: A natural or legal person who provides a security interest.  
Secured Debtor: A natural or legal person who owes a secured obligation, if 
not the guarantor.  
Accounts Receivable: A debtor’s unsecured monetary right against a third 
party, whether due or deferred.  
Security by Transfer of Right: An agreement between a creditor and another 
person whereby said person transfers his rights which are held by a third party 
to be used as collateral to secure the debt he owes to the creditor. 
Register: The Unified Register for Rights on Movable Property. 
Registration: The entry of a security interest and any changes thereto into the 
Register.   
Inventory: Goods stored for the purpose of selling or leasing as well as raw 
materials and materials in the process of manufacturing and conversion.  
Fixture: A movable property permanently attached to a real property for serving 
or exploiting it.  
Proceeds: Revenues, or in-kind or monetary allowances obtained from the 
  3 

NEW PAGE

Movable Property Security Law 
 
 
 
disposition, utilization, or exchange of collateral, including its output and growth, 
compensation for depreciation or damage, or any other compensation related 
to the collateral, excluding proceeds obtained from the enforcement thereon, in 
accordance with the provisions of this Law.  
Chapter 2: Scope of Application 
Article 2 
The provisions of this Law shall apply to any contract or transaction that 
includes the creation of a security interest over a collateral, including: 
a) commercial pledge; 
b) sale  of  a  movable  property  that  includes  a  condition  for  recovery  or 
repurchase thereof; 
c) transfer of ownership of a movable property as security; 
d) sale  of  a  movable  property,  provided  that  the  transfer  of  ownership  is 
postponed until payment is made; 
e) security by transfer of right; and 
f)  sale of rights in accounts receivable. 
Article 3 
A collateral may be any movable property, whether tangible or intangible, 
current  or  future;  whether  current  or  future  rights;  whether  owned  by  a 
guarantor, a secured creditor, or a third party, including:  
a) rights held by a third party, whether due or deferred, including accounts 
receivable; 
b) credit accounts with banks and other financial institutions, including deposit 
accounts and current accounts; 
c) instruments  transferable  by  delivery  or  indorsement,  which  establish 
entitlement  to  an  amount  or  ownership  of  goods,  including  commercial 
papers, bank certificates of deposit, and bills of lading; 
d) vehicles and the like; 
e) equipment and work tools; 
f)  inventory; 
g) animals and animal products; 
h) crops; 
i)  fixtures; and  
j)  trees, even before they are cut down, and minerals, even before they are 
extracted. 
  4 

NEW PAGE

Movable Property Security Law 
 
 
 
Article 4 
The provisions of this Law shall not apply to the following transactions:  
a) Transfer of right for debt collection purposes.  
b) Purchase of a debt that is part of a project acquisition agreement.  
Article 5 
The provisions of this Law shall not apply to security interests relating to: 
a) vessels and aircraft; 
b) securities listed in the capital market; 
c) goods deposited in public warehouses, unless the security interest has been 
created prior to their deposit; 
d) trademarks; 
e) investment accounts; and 
f)  properties with title records wherein security interests are entered.  
Chapter 3: Creating a Security Interest 
Article 6 
1. A security interest shall be deemed valid and effective among the parties 
thereto if: 
a) it is written, either in a separate contract or included in another contract; 
b) the guarantor is entitled to create a security interest over a collateral; 
c) a secured obligation is described in general or specific terms; this shall 
include determination of its upper limit; 
d) a collateral is described in general or specific terms to make it identifiable; 
this shall include describing it as the guarantor’s entire property, or as a 
specific or general category or type of the guarantor’s property; and 
e) a secured creditor performs or undertakes to perform his obligation in 
return for a secured obligation.  
2. A security interest is created to secure one or more obligations, whether such 
obligation is prior to, coinciding with, or subsequent to the date on which the 
security interest is created.  
Article 7 
A security interest shall not be valid if it is created on property over which the 
creation of a security interest is not permissible under other laws.  
  5 

NEW PAGE

Movable Property Security Law 
 
 
 
Chapter 4: Enforcement of a Security Interest against a Third Party 
Article 8 
1. A security interest shall be enforceable against a third party if it is registered 
or the possession of the collateral is directly or indirectly transferred to the 
secured creditor, whether such transfer is actual or constructive. 
2. Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  (1)  of  this  Article,  the 
Regulations shall determine the cases where possession is the only means 
of enforcing a security interest against a third party . 
Article 9 
Notwithstanding the provision of Article 8(2) of this Law, changing the means 
of enforcing a security interest over a collateral from registration to possession 
or vice versa shall not affect the continued enforcement of such security interest 
against a third party. 
Article 10 
1. An enforceable security interest over collateral proceeds against a third party 
shall continue automatically for a period of 15 days from the date on which 
such proceeds are received by the guarantor, unless it is agreed to exclude 
such collateral upon the creation of the security interest. 
2. The enforcement of a security interest over proceeds against a third party 
shall expire upon the lapse of the period stipulated in paragraph (1) of this 
Article, excluding identifiable monetary proceeds or the proceeds indicated 
in the registration. 
Article 11 
If the collateral is a right held by a third party, the security interest shall be 
enforceable against such party from the date of his notification of the creation 
of the security interest over such right. 
Article 12 
Any condition in an agreement that restricts a guarantor’s right to present his 
debts or transfer his rights as collateral to validate a contract shall not affect the 
creation or enforcement of a security interest, and shall not prevent the party 
who required the restriction for his benefit from having recourse against the 
guarantor to claim his rights under the agreement. 
Article 13 
1. a) A security interest shall continue to be enforceable against a third party 
even if the collateral becomes a fixture, provided the security interest is 
entered into the Register.  
  6 

NEW PAGE

Movable Property Security Law 
 
 
 
b) The enforcement of a registered security interest over a collateral that has 
become a fixture shall apply against any creditor secured by the real property 
to which the collateral is attached, whether such property is provided as a 
security for an obligation prior to or after the collateral is attached to the 
property.  
2. A security interest created over a collateral that has become a fixture shall 
not be enforceable against the mortgagee of a real property if the collateral 
is attached to the property prior to mortgage registration, unless the security 
interest is registered. 
Article 14 
A security interest shall continue to be enforceable against a third party if a 
detachable collateral is attached to another movable property. 
Article 15 
If a secured creditor transfers a security interest enforceable against a third 
party, registration of the transfer shall not be required and the security interest 
shall continue to be enforceable against a third party. 
Chapter 5: Registration 
Article 16 
1. Registration of a security interest shall not be valid except with the written 
approval of the guarantor. 
2. Registration shall be completed by following the procedures specified in the 
Regulations,  including  filling  out  the  electronic  form  designated  for  this 
purpose; provided that such form includes: 
a) the  guarantor's  particulars,  including  his  name  according  to  official 
documents, and his identification or registration number; 
b) the secured creditor’s name, address, and contact information;   
c) a description of the collateral in accordance with Article 6(1)(d) of this Law; 
and 
d) the registration’s expiration date. 
Article 17 
1. Registration shall expire upon termination by the secured creditor; expiration 
of the period specified in the Register, unless such period is extended prior 
to the expiration date; or the issuance of a court judgment to strike off or 
terminate the registration.  
2. If  the  expiration  of  the  security  interest  precedes  the  expiration  of  the 
registration, the secured creditor shall terminate the registration within 15 
  7 

NEW PAGE

Movable Property Security Law 
 
 
 
days from the expiration date of the security interest, and shall compensate 
the guarantor for any damage arising from his failure to terminate within the 
specified period. 
Article 18 
Any person may have access to the Register and may obtain a printed copy of 
the data and information of any registration. The certified printed copy shall be 
deemed a valid document for establishing the registration’s date, time, and 
content. 
Chapter 6: Priority Right 
Article 19 
1. A  guarantor  may  attach  more  than  one  security  interest  to  the  same 
collateral.  
2. A secured creditor shall have priority over other creditors in the performance 
of an obligation secured by a collateral; priority among secured creditors 
shall be determined according to the following:  
a) A security interest perfected against a third party shall have priority over 
other security interests.  
b) A security interest perfected against a third party by registration shall have 
priority over other perfected security interests. 
c) In case of multiple security interests perfected by registration, priority shall 
be given to the first secured creditor to perfect his security interest.  
d) In case of multiple security interests perfected by transfer of possession, 
priority shall be given to the first secured creditor to take possession of 
the collateral.  
e) In case of multiple unperfected security interests against a third party, 
priority shall be given to the first secured creditor to create the security 
interest. 
3. Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  (2)  of  this  Article,  the 
Regulations  may,  if  applicable,  determine  special  priorities  for  security 
interests in specific transactions or property.  
Article 20 
Security interests perfected against third parties shall have priority of payment 
over other debts, including workers’ rights and government dues. 
Article 21 
A secured creditor may, in writing, relinquish the rank of priority assigned to his 
security interest without affecting other security interests; such action shall be 
  8 

NEW PAGE

Movable Property Security Law 
 
 
 
enforceable against third parties without the need for registration . 
Chapter 7: Right of Tracing 
Article 22 
1. A guarantor may not transfer the ownership of the collateral except with the 
consent of the secured creditor or if such transfer is carried out within the 
guarantor’s ordinary course of business. 
2. Transfer of ownership of a collateral in a security interest enforceable against 
a third party, in violation of paragraph (1) of this Article, shall give the secured 
creditor the right to trace the collateral to secure his rights regardless of 
possession.  
Chapter 8: Enforcement of Collateral 
Article 23 
1. A guarantor and a secured creditor may agree to enable the latter to take a 
non-judicial enforcement action on a collateral in order to secure his right in 
case  of  non-performance  of  a  secured  obligation,  provided  that  such 
agreement is made in writing prior to non-performance.  
2. The enforcement referred to in paragraph (1) of this Article shall include the 
sale of the collateral by way of public auction or direct sale, or the acquisition 
thereof to secure the right of the secured creditor. The Regulations shall 
specify the necessary provisions and procedures. 
Article 24 
A secured creditor may take the necessary measures to repair and improve a 
collateral and prepare it for sale. 
Article 25 
A non-judicial or judicial enforcement on a collateral shall clear such collateral 
of any interests arising therefrom.  
Article 26 
1. If the collateral enforcement proceeds are not sufficient to satisfy the rights 
arising therefrom, they shall be distributed according to the following order:  
a) Expenses of repairing and improving a collateral and preparing it for sale . 
b) Expenses of enforcement on the collateral.  
c) Amounts owed to the owners of security interests according to their 
  9 

NEW PAGE

Movable Property Security Law 
 
 
 
priority, in accordance with the provisions of this Law. 
2. In case of non-judicial enforcement, a secured creditor shall be responsible 
for reimbursing any remaining amounts to the guarantor after enforcement, 
and  after  satisfying  the  rights  resulting  from  the  collateral  provided  in 
paragraph (1) of this Article.  
3. A person who owes a secured obligation shall remain liable before a secured 
creditor for any unsatisfied rights; in such case, said unsatisfied rights shall 
be deemed unsecured debt. 
Chapter 9: The Register 
Article 27 
1. The Ministry shall establish and manage the Register. However, it may 
outsource the management of the Register to a private agency. In such case, 
the Ministry shall define the agency’s work procedures and ensure that its 
work is carried out with efficiency and integrity. 
2. A secured creditor who carries out the registration shall be responsible for 
the accuracy and validity of the provided information and data. The agency 
managing the Register shall not be liable for any incorrect or inaccurate data 
or information contained in such registration. 
3. An interested party may contest any registration made in the Register or 
against specific data by filing a petition with the competent court. 
Chapter 10: Final Provisions 
Article 28 
The Minister shall issue the Regulations within 30 days from the date of 
publication of this Law in the Official Gazette. The Regulations shall include:  
a) registration procedures; 
b) procedures for searching the Register and obtaining printed copies; and 
c) fees for Register services.  
Article 29 
This Law shall enter into force from the date of its publication in the Official 
Gazette. 
  10 

NEW PAGE
Succession Commission Law
1427 H
Succession Commission Law
Article 1
A commission called the Succession Commission shall be formed pursuant to a Royal Order as follows:

The sons of the Founder-King Abdulaziz ibn Abdurrahman Al-Faisal Al-Saud.
A son of every deceased, declining, or incapacitated (as per a medical report) to be appointed by the King from among the sons of the Founder-King Abdulaziz ibn Abdurrahman Al-Faisal Al-Saud, provided that he is known for his righteousness and competence.
Two members to be appointed by the King, one from among his sons and the other from the sons of the Crown Prince, provided that they are known for their righteousness and competence.
And if the place of any member of the Succession Commission becomes vacant, the King shall appoint a substitute in accordance with the conditions referred to in paragraphs (2) and (3) of this Article.

Article 2
The Commission shall exercise the duties entrusted to it in accordance with this Law and the Basic Law of Governance.

Article 3
The Commission shall adhere to the Book of Allah and the Sunnah of His Prophet, Muhammad may Allah’s peace and blessings be upon him, maintain the State’s entity, uphold the solidarity and cooperation of the royal family, and guard against its dissention, and preserve national unity and the interests of the people.

Article 4
The seat of the Commission shall be in the city of Riyadh and its meetings shall be held at the Royal Court, and they may be held, with the King’s approval, at any of the Royal Courts in the Kingdom or any other place specified by the King.

Article 5
The Commission’s chairman, members, and secretary general shall take the following oath before the King and prior to assuming their duties in the Commission: “I swear to Allah God Almighty to be loyal to my Religion, then to my King and Country. I swear not to reveal any of the State’s secrets, to protect its interests and laws,  to safeguard the solidarity and cooperation of the royal family and national unity, and to discharge my duties with honesty, integrity, sincerity, and fairness.”

Article 6
Upon the King’s death, the Commission shall call for the pledge of allegiance to the Crown Prince as King of the country in accordance with this Law and the Basic Law of Governance.

Article 7
A.    After receiving the pledge of allegiance and after consultation with members of the Commission, the King shall nominate one, two, or three candidates from among those he deems fit to be Crown Prince. Such nomination shall be brought before the Commission which shall exert effort to agree on one nominee to be named Crown Prince. In case the Commission does not nominate any of them, then it shall nominate whomever it deems fit to be Crown Prince. B.    The King may at any time ask the Commission to nominate whom it deems fit to be Crown Prince. In case the King does not approve the Commission’s nominee in accordance with paragraphs (a) or (b) of this Article, the Commission shall vote on its nominee and another chosen by the King, and the one with the majority of votes shall be named Crown Prince.

Article 8
A nominee for Crown Prince must satisfy the provisions of Article 5(b) of the Basic Law of Governance.

Article 9
The Crown Prince shall be chosen in accordance with the provision of Article 7 within a period not exceeding 30 days from the date of the pledge of allegiance to the King.

Article 10
The Commission shall form a provisional council for governance from five of its members. The Council shall run the State’s affairs temporarily in the cases provided for in this Law.  However, the Council shall in no case have the power to amend the Basic Law of Governance, this Law, the Law of the Council of Ministers, the Law of the Shura Council, the Law of Provinces, the Law of the National Security Council, or any other law relating to governance, nor to dissolve or reconstitute the Council of Ministers or the Shura Council. The Council shall, during the transitional period, safeguard the unity of the State, its internal and external interests, and its laws.

Article 11
In case the Council is convinced that the King is incapable of exercising his powers for health reasons, the Commission shall entrust the medical committee provided for in this Law to prepare a medical report on the health condition of the King. If the medical report proves that the inability of the King to exercise his powers is temporary, the Commission shall prepare minutes to this effect. Henceforth, the King’s powers shall be exercised temporarily by the Crown Prince until the recovery of the King. When a written notice from the King reaches the Chairman of the Commission informing him that the medical reasons for his inability to exercise his powers no longer exist or when the Commission is convinced of the same, it shall direct said medical committee to prepare a medical report on the King’s health condition within a period not exceeding 24 hours. If the medical report confirms the ability of the King to exercise his powers, the Commission shall prepare minutes to this effect; henceforth, the King shall resume exercising his powers. However, if the medical report proves that the inability of the King to exercise his powers is permanent, the Commission shall prepare minutes to this effect. Henceforth, the Commission shall call for the pledge of allegiance to the Crown Prince as King of the Country, provided that these procedures are carried out in accordance with this Law and the Basic Law of Governance within a period not exceeding 24 hours.

Article 12
In case the Commission is convinced that both the King and the Crown Prince are incapable of exercising their powers for health reasons, the Commission shall request the medical committee provided for in this Law to prepare a medical report on their health condition. If the medical report confirms that their inability to exercise their power is temporary, the Commission shall prepare minutes to this effect; henceforth, the Provisional Council of Governance shall run the State’s affairs and look after the people’s interests until the recovery of either of them. When a written notice is received by the Commission from the King or the Crown Prince that he has recovered or when the Commission is convinced of said recovery, it shall direct said medical committee to prepare a medical report on his condition within a period not exceeding 24 hours. If the medical report confirms the ability of either of them to exercise his powers, the Commission shall prepare minutes to this effect; henceforth, he shall resume exercising his powers. However, if the medical report proves that their inability is permanent, the Commission shall prepare minutes to this effect, and the Provisional Council of Governance shall run the State’s affairs, provided that the Commission shall, within a period not exceeding seven days, choose the most fit for governance from among the sons of the Founder-King Abdulaziz ibn Abdurrahman Al-Faisal Al-Saud and the sons of the sons and call for pledge allegiance to him as King of the Country in accordance with this Law and the Basic Law of Governance.

Article 13
In case of the death of both the King and the Crown Prince at the same time, the Commission shall, within a period not exceeding seven days, choose the most fit for governance from among the sons of the Founder-King Abdulaziz ibn Abdurrahman Al-Faisal Al-Saud and the sons of the sons and call for pledging allegiance to him as King of the Country, in accordance with this Law and the Basic Law of Governance. The Provisional Council of Governance shall run the State’s affairs until the pledge of allegiance is given.

Article 14
A medical committee shall be formed of the following:-

The medical director of the royal clinics.
The medical director of King Faisal Specialist Hospital.
Three of the deans of the colleges of medicine in the Kingdom chosen by the Succession  Commission.
The Committee shall issue the medical reports referred to in this Law and it may seek the assistance of any physician it chooses.

Article 15
The Commission shall be presided over by the eldest member of the sons of the Founder-King Abdulaziz ibn Abdurrahman Al-Faisal Al-Saud and he shall be represented by the second eldest of his brothers, and in their absence, the meeting shall be presided over by the eldest of the sons of the sons in the Commission.

Article 16
Meetings of the Commission are secret and such meetings shall be held with the King’s approval, provided that they shall not be attended except by the members and secretary general in addition to the person entrusted with recording its deliberations upon the King’s approval. The Commission may summon, upon the approval of the King, any one to give explanations or information in a non-voting capacity.

Article 17
The Chairman of the Commission shall be responsible for calling for its meetings in the cases provided for in Articles 6, 11, 12, and 13 of this Law.

Article 18
Members of the Commission must attend the meetings of the Commission, and if any member has an excuse that justifies his absence from any meeting, he should inform the Chairman of the Commission in writing, and no member shall withdraw finally from a Commission meeting before it ends except with the permission of the chairman of the meeting.

Article 19
The chairman of the meeting shall open meetings and announce their end, control discussions, give permission to talk, determine the topic of discussion, end discussions, and put issues for voting. The Commission may discuss any issue not listed on its agenda upon the approval of 10 of its members. 

Article 20
Meetings of the Commission shall not be valid unless attended by at least two thirds of its members including the Chairman of the Commission or his representative.  Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 7, the Commission's resolutions shall be taken by majority vote of its attending members; in case of a tie, the chairman of the meeting shall have the casting vote. In emergency cases, where the legal quorum is not available, meetings of the Commission may be held with the presence of half of its members, and in such cases, its resolutions shall be taken by the approval of two thirds of the attending members. 

Article 21
Minutes shall be prepared for each meeting to record the following information: place of the meeting, date of the meeting, time of opening the meeting, name of the meeting chairman, names of members present, names of members absent and reasons of absence, if any, name of secretary general, summary of discussions, number of consenting and dissenting votes, result of voting, texts of the resolutions, matters related to postponement or suspension of the meeting, the time at which the meeting ended, and any other issues the chairman of the meeting finds necessary to be recorded. The minutes shall be signed by the chairman of the meeting, attending members , and the secretary general.

Article 22
Voting related to the Commission's resolutions shall be conducted by secret ballot in accordance with a form prepared for this purpose.

Article 23
Commission members shall peruse the agenda and enclosures at the place of the meeting, but shall not be entitled to take the documents of the Commission outside the place of meeting.

Article 24
The King shall appoint a secretary general for the Commission who shall be responsible for finalizing the procedures of calling for the meetings of the Commission, supervising the drafting of minutes and resolutions, and releasing information relating to its meetings in accordance with the decisions of the Chairman of the Commission. The secretary general may, upon the approval of the King, seek the assistance of anyone he chooses, and the King shall appoint a deputy for the secretary general to carry out the duties of the secretary general in his absence.

Article 25
The provisions of this Law may be amended by royal order subject to the approval of the Succession Commission.


The Code of Law Practice 
 
Royal Decree No. M/38 
October 15, 2001 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Translation of Saudi Laws 

NEW PAGE

The Code of Law Practice 
 
 
 
NOTE: 
The translation of Saudi laws takes the following into consideration: 
•  Words used in the singular form include the plural and vice versa.  
•  Words used in the masculine form include the feminine.  
•  Words used in the present tense include the present as well as the 
future.  
•  The word “person” or “persons” and their related pronouns (he, his, 
him, they, their, them) refer to a natural and legal person.  
 
   
  2 

NEW PAGE

The Code of Law Practice 
 
 
 
The Code of Law Practice 
Part 1: Definition and Requirements of Law Practice  
Article 1 
In this Law, the term law practice shall mean representing third parties before 
courts of law, the Board of Grievances, and other committees which may be set 
up pursuant to laws, orders, and decisions to consider cases falling within their 
respective  jurisdictions.  It  shall  also  mean  rendering  consultancy  services 
based on the principles of Sharia and the rule of law. Whoever practices this 
profession shall be called a lawyer. Any person shall be entitled to legally 
represent himself. 
Article 2 
The Ministry of Justice shall prepare a general list of the names of practicing 
lawyers and another list of non-practicing lawyers, as of the time of registration. 
The  two  lists  shall  include  the  particulars  specified  by  the  implementing 
regulations of this Code. The Ministry of Justice shall transfer the names of 
lawyers who cease to practice the profession for a period exceeding one year 
from the list of practicing lawyers to the list of non-practicing lawyers subject to 
the restrictions stated in the implementing regulations of this Code. 
Article 3 
A person who practices law shall have his name included in the list of practicing 
lawyers, after satisfying the following requirements: 
a) He must be a Saudi national. Non-Saudis may practice law subject to the 
terms of agreements concluded between the Kingdom and other countries. 
b) He must hold a degree from a Sharia college or a bachelor of law from a 
Saudi university, or an equivalent of any of these degrees obtained from 
abroad, or a post-graduate diploma in legal studies from the Institute of 
Public Administration. 
c) He must have at least three years of relevant legal experience. This period 
may be reduced to one year for holders of a Master’s degree in Sharia or 
law, or an equivalent thereof, or a post-graduate diploma in law for graduates 
of a Sharia college. This requirement shall not apply to holders of doctorate 
degrees in these fields of specialization. 
d) He must be of good conduct and not under interdiction. 
e) He  must  not  have  been  sentenced  to  any  hadd  (Qur’anic  prescribed 
punishment) or any other sentence in connection with a crime that impugns 
integrity, except where a minimum period of five years has elapsed since the 
execution of said sentence. 
f)  He must be a resident of the Kingdom. 
  3 

NEW PAGE

The Code of Law Practice 
 
 
 
The Minister of Justice shall prepare a declaration form to be signed by the 
applicant wherein he confirms that the requirements stated in paragraphs 
(d), (e), and (f) of this Article have been satisfied. 
Article 4 
The provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of Article 3 shall not apply to applicants 
who have at least three years of experience as judges in the Kingdom. 
Article 5 
The application for registration shall be submitted to the Lawyers Registration 
and  Admission  Committee  using  the  form  specified  in  the  implementing 
regulations of this Code. The Committee shall be formed as follows: 
1. A representative from the Ministry of Justice to be appointed by the Minister 
of Justice, chairman. 
2. A representative from the Board of Grievances whose rank shall not be lower 
than the rank of a Chief of a Court of class A, to be appointed by the 
Chairman of the Board of Grievances, member. 
3. A lawyer who has been practicing law for a minimum of five years, to be 
appointed by the Minister of Justice, member. 
The competent authority shall name a substitute in case of the absence of a 
member of this committee. The term of membership of this committee shall be 
three years renewable for another term. 
Article 6 
The Committee provided for in Article 5 shall meet with all members present, 
and its decisions shall be adopted by majority vote. The Committee shall ensure 
that the provisions stated herein have been met, and shall decide on any 
application, if complete, within a period not exceeding 30 days from the date of 
filing. In case of rejection of any application, the reasons for such rejection must 
be stated if so requested. An aggrieved applicant may file an appeal with the 
Board of Grievances within 60 days from the date on which he is notified of the 
decision adopted by the Committee. 
Article 7 
Following registration on the list, a license to practice law shall be granted 
pursuant to a decision by the Minister of Justice, in accordance with a form 
specified in the implementing regulations of this Code. This license shall be 
valid for a period of five years and may be renewed in accordance with the 
conditions provided for herein. The applicant shall pay a fee of 2,000 riyals for 
the issuance of a license, and 1,000 riyals for renewal.  
Article 9 
A lawyer who ceases to practice the profession for a period exceeding one year 
shall notify the Ministry of Justice in a form to be specified in the implementing 
regulations of this Code. 
  4 

NEW PAGE

The Code of Law Practice 
 
 
 
Article 10 
A professional partnership for practicing law may be formed by two or more of 
the lawyers whose names are registered in the list subject to the provisions of 
the Law of Professional Companies. 
Part 2: Duties and Rights of Lawyers 
Article 11 
A lawyer shall practice the profession in accordance with Sharia and applicable 
laws.  He  shall  refrain  from  any  act  that  compromises  the  dignity  of  the 
profession and shall comply with relevant rules and instructions. 
Article 12 
A lawyer shall not refer to personal matters concerning his client’s adversary or 
lawyer, and shall refrain from any offensive language or accusation, which may 
have a negative impact on integrity. 
Article 13 
Subject to Article 12, a lawyer may choose any strategy he deems appropriate 
to defend the interests of his client and, in so doing, shall not be questioned in 
connection with the content of his written or oral arguments. 
Article 14 
1. A lawyer shall not accept any case or render any advice either personally, or 
through another lawyer, against his present or former employer except after 
the expiry of a minimum period of five years from the date of termination of 
his relation with that employer. 
2. A lawyer who acts for a client on a part-time basis pursuant to a contract 
shall not accept any case or render any advice against that client before the 
expiry of three years following termination of that contract. 
Article 15 
A lawyer shall not agree to represent either personally, or through another 
lawyer, an adversary of his client or otherwise provide him with any assistance, 
even in the form of an opinion, in connection with a case that he has previously 
handled or in connection with any other related matter even after the expiry of 
his power of attorney. 
  5 

NEW PAGE

The Code of Law Practice 
 
 
 
Article 16 
Anyone who has been a judge prior to practicing law shall not accept either 
personally, or through another lawyer, any case that has previously come 
before him. 
Article 17 
Anyone who has previously provided an opinion in connection with a certain 
case, whether as an employee, arbitrator, or expert, shall not accept that case. 
Article 18 
The lawyers whose names are registered on the list of practicing lawyers shall 
be exclusively entitled to litigate on behalf of third parties before courts of law, 
the Board of Grievances, or the committees referred to in Article 1 herein. By 
way of exception, third parties may be represented by the following: 
a) An attorney-in-fact in one to three cases. If he has previously handled three 
cases  on  behalf  of  three  different  persons,  he  shall  not  be  entitled  to 
represent any other party. 
b) Husbands, in-laws, or any next-of-kin up to the fourth degree. 
c) A legal representative of a corporate person. 
d) Trustees, guardians, and administrators of endowments in connection with 
their trusteeship, guardianship, and administration cases. 
e) An administrator of the public treasury with respect to matters within his 
jurisdiction, pursuant to the law and regulations. 
Article 19 
Courts of law, the Board of Grievances, the committees referred to in Article 1 
hereof, government agencies, and investigation authorities shall facilitate the 
lawyer’s discharge of his assignment, and shall enable him to attend any 
interrogations and review any relevant documents. His requests shall not be 
denied except for a valid reason. 
Article 20 
A lawyer or attorney-in-fact shall present the original deed of his power of 
attorney or a certified copy thereof to the court, the Board of Grievances, or the 
committees referred to in Article 1 hereof. These documents shall be presented 
during the first hearing of the case. Should the principal attend any hearing with 
his lawyer, the clerk, or whoever is so acting, shall record the same in the proper 
minutes, and this entry shall constitute a power of attorney. If the lawyer is in 
possession  of  a  duly  certified  general  power  of  attorney  entitling  him  to 
represent one of the litigants, he shall be relieved from filing the original deed 
and providing a certified copy thereof shall suffice, or he may present the 
original deed and a copy thereof, and the judge shall verify that copy against 
the original deed. 
  6 

NEW PAGE

The Code of Law Practice 
 
 
 
Article 21 
Each lawyer shall have one or more places of business for handling the cases 
entrusted to his care and shall notify the Ministry of Justice of the address of 
his place of business and of any changes thereto. 
Article 22 
Upon expiration of a power of attorney, the lawyer in charge of the case shall 
return to his principal, on demand, the deed of power of attorney and the original 
documentation. However, if his fees have not been paid, he shall be entitled to 
make copies, at the expense of his principal, of all supporting documents, and 
shall retain the original papers and documents until the principal has paid the 
fees due and the cost of making copies thereof. A lawyer is not under any 
obligation to deliver to his principal the drafts of the documents he has filed with 
the court or any letters addressed to him. However, he must, on demand, 
provide his principal, at his principal’s expense, with copies of these documents. 
Article 23 
A  lawyer  shall  not  disclose  any  confidential  information  which  has  been 
communicated to him or of which he has become aware in the course of 
practicing his profession even after the expiration of his power of attorney, 
unless such non-disclosure constitutes a violation of a Sharia requirement. 
Similarly, he shall not withdraw from representing his client before the case has 
been concluded, without a legitimate reason. 
Article 24 
A claim filed by a principal against his lawyer in connection with the documents 
deposited with that lawyer shall not be heard after the expiry of a period of five 
years from the date on which that lawyer completed his assignment, except 
where  such  documents  have  been  claimed  by  registered  mail,  with  an 
acknowledgement of  receipt,  prior  to expiry of  that  period,  in which  case 
calculation of that period shall commence from the date of receipt of that mail. 
Article 25 
A lawyer shall not be entitled to purchase any or all of the disputed rights in 
respect of which he was the appointed representative. 
Article 26 
The lawyer’s fees and method of payment shall be determined by agreement 
with his client. If there is no such agreement, or if the agreement is disputed or 
void, such fees shall be assessed by the court adjudicating the case, pursuant 
to a request by either the lawyer or the client, consistent with the effort exerted 
by the lawyer and the benefit obtained by the client. This rule shall also apply 
to any subsidiary claim ensuing from the original case. 
  7 

NEW PAGE

The Code of Law Practice 
 
 
 
Article 27 
A client shall be entitled to dismiss his lawyer; however, he shall pay all agreed 
upon fees if it is established that such dismissal was without valid cause, except 
where the competent court decides otherwise with respect to such dismissal or 
to the full payment of the fees. 
Article 28 
In case of a lawyer’s death, and if the deceased lawyer’s heirs and the client 
fail to agree on the fees, the competent court shall assess such fees consistent 
with the effort exerted by the deceased lawyer, the benefit obtained by the 
client, the stage of the proceedings, and the concluded agreement. 
Part 3: Disciplinary Action 
Article 29 
1. The name of a lawyer shall be struck from the list and his license revoked in 
case he is sentenced to a hadd (Qur’anic prescribed punishment) or any 
other punishment in connection with a crime that impugns integrity. 
2. Without prejudice to a claim for compensation by any aggrieved party or to 
any other claim, any lawyer who violates the provisions of this Code or its 
implementing regulations, commits a breach of his professional duties, or 
performs any act that is incompatible with professional standards shall be 
subject to one of the following penalties: 
a) Warning. 
b) Reprimand. 
c) Suspension of practice for a period not exceeding three years. 
d) Striking his name off the list and revoking his license. 
Article 30 
The Prosecutor shall initiate disciplinary proceedings against said lawyer, either 
of his own accord or pursuant to instructions by the Minister of Justice, any 
court of law, the Board of Grievances, or any of the committees referred to in 
Article 1 of this Code. 
Article 31 
The Minister of Justice shall form, pursuant to a resolution, one or more 
committees to consider the imposition of the disciplinary penalties provided for 
in Article 29 hereof. 
This committee shall be called “the Disciplinary Committee”, and it shall consist 
of a judge and two experts, one of whom is to be selected from the class of 
lawyers who have been practicing the profession for a minimum period of 10 
  8 

NEW PAGE

The Code of Law Practice 
 
 
 
years. The Minister of Justice shall appoint one of the members to act as 
Chairman. Membership of this Committee shall be for a term of three years and 
shall be renewable for a similar period.  
Committee meetings shall be attended by all members and its decisions shall 
be taken by majority vote. These decisions shall be appealable to the Board of 
Grievances within 60 days from the date of notifying the lawyer concerned of 
the penalties imposed on him. 
Article 32 
The lawyer shall be summoned to appear before the Disciplinary Committee. 
This summons shall give a short account of the violation of which he is charged 
and the evidence thereof, at least 15 days prior to the date set for the hearing. 
The lawyer may appear in person or be represented by another lawyer. The 
Disciplinary Committee may require his personal appearance, and if he fails to 
appear after having been summoned twice, the Committee may issue a default 
decision. 
Article 33 
The  decisions  of  the  Disciplinary  Committee  shall  be  issued  after  the 
prosecution  and  lawyer’s  defense  have  been  heard.  Reasoning  for  such 
decisions must be stated. The decision and the reasoning thereof shall be read 
out in full in a closed session. The Ministry of Justice shall notify, within 15 days 
from  the  effective  date  of  the  final  decision,  courts  of  law,  the  Board  of 
Grievances, and the competent authorities of that decision. Such decisions 
shall be kept in a special register. In all cases, disciplinary actions shall be 
communicated by a member of the Disciplinary Committee. Delivery of a copy 
of the decision to the lawyer concerned in an official manner shall be treated as 
adequate notice. When the decision has become final, whether it be striking off 
the lawyer’s name from the list or suspension of his practice, only the decision 
thereof shall be published, at the lawyer’s expense, in one or more of the 
newspapers issued in the locality of the lawyer’s place of business. Should 
there be no newspaper in that locality, it shall be published in a newspaper in 
the nearest locality. 
Article 34 
After having been notified or provided with a copy of a default decision, the 
lawyer concerned shall have 15 days to appeal. The appeal shall be addressed 
to the Chairman of the Disciplinary Committee, either by the lawyer concerned 
or through his representative. 
Article 35 
Upon suspending a lawyer from practicing law, his name shall be transferred 
from  the  list  of  practicing  lawyers  to  the  list  of  non-practicing  lawyers.  A 
suspended lawyer shall not be entitled to conduct his practice throughout the 
duration of suspension. If he fails to comply with the same, his name shall be 
  9 

NEW PAGE

The Code of Law Practice 
 
 
 
struck off the lawyers’ list and his license shall be revoked. The Minister of 
Justice shall, pursuant to a recommendation by the committee provided for in 
Article 5 hereof, issue instructions relating to pending cases that were being 
handled by suspended lawyers. 
Article 36 
A lawyer whose name has been struck off the list pursuant to a disciplinary 
decision issued by the Disciplinary Committee may, after three years from the 
effective date of that decision, apply to the Lawyers Registration and Admission 
Committee to reinstate his name. 
Article 37 
A term of imprisonment not exceeding one year or a minimum fine of 30,000 
riyals, or both, may be imposed on: 
a) a person who impersonates a lawyer or practices law in violation of the 
provisions of this Code; and 
b) a lawyer who practices law after his name has been struck off the list. 
Such punishments shall be imposed by a competent court. The sentence may 
provide for the publication of an abstract summary at the expense of the 
convicted person in one or more local newspapers or any other appropriate 
medium, according to the type, gravity, and effect of the crime or violation 
committed,  provided  that  such  publication  is  executed  after  the  judgment 
becomes final. 
Part 4: General and Transitional Provisions 
Article 38 
Saudi lawyers and consultants who hold valid permits or licenses issued by the 
Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of Commerce pursuant to the regulations that 
were then in force may continue their practice, provided that they shall file 
applications, within five years from the effective date hereof, to the Lawyers 
Registration  and  Admission  Committee  referred  to  in  Article  5  hereof  for 
registration. The Committee shall register their names on the list and provide 
them with new licenses pursuant to the provisions of this Code. The competent 
authority that had previously issued these permits and licenses shall send to 
said Committee all the papers and other documents pursuant to which these 
permits or licenses were issued. 
However, the Minister of Justice may extend the period herein specified to a 
maximum period not exceeding five years for Saudi lawyers who are holding 
such licenses as long as they satisfy the requirements provided for in Article 3 
herein, excluding the qualification requirement referred to in paragraph (b) of 
said Article, provided that they pay the renewal fees specified in Article 7 hereof. 
  10 

NEW PAGE

The Code of Law Practice 
 
 
 
Article 39 
Subject to the provisions of paragraph (a) of Article 3 hereof, non-Saudis who 
hold valid licenses that have been issued prior to the implementation of Council 
of Ministers Resolution No. 116, dated 12/7/1400H, may continue to practice 
only as consultants on a temporary basis, subject to the following conditions: 
1. A non-Saudi shall carry out his practice on a full time basis. 
2. He shall not litigate before courts of law, the Board of Grievances, or the 
committees referred to in Article 1 hereof; and these entities shall not accept 
his litigation. 
3. He shall reside in the Kingdom for a minimum period of nine months a year. 
4. He shall satisfy the requirements for registration, excluding citizenship. 
5. Copies of his qualifications and his previous license shall be filed with the 
Ministry of Justice within six months of the date of implementation of this 
Code. The Ministry of Justice shall prepare a special register for licensed 
non-Saudis, and shall grant them temporary licenses. The Minister of Justice 
shall determine the particulars to be entered in the register and the license. 
He shall also specify the duration and expiry date of such license. A license 
shall be deemed terminated by force of law in case of the absence of any of 
the requirements mentioned herein. 
Article 40 
A lawyer licensed pursuant to Article 39 may have his own practice or may enter 
into partnership with a Saudi lawyer. Such lawyer shall not be entitled to seek 
the assistance of a non-Saudi lawyer, whether said lawyer is an individual or 
company. 
Article 41 
A Saudi lawyer and any lawyer holding a license pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
Article 3 hereof may be assisted in his practice, where necessary, by one or 
more  non-Saudi  lawyers  pursuant  to  an  employment  contract,  under  his 
responsibility and supervision, subject to the following conditions: 
1. The licensed lawyer shall attend to his practice regularly and shall sign all 
correspondence  issued  by  the  firm  in  connection  with  relevant  cases. 
However, he may assign a representative from among any of the Saudi 
lawyers or any other lawyer who is licensed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
Article 3 hereof. 
2. A non-Saudi lawyer shall satisfy the requirements for registration, excluding 
citizenship, and shall have a minimum of five years of relevant experience. 
3. His  practice  shall  be  restricted  to  providing  assistance  and  preparing 
submissions in the name of the lawyer who is holding the license. He shall 
not enter into litigation before courts of law, the Board of Grievances, or the 
committees referred to in Article 1 hereof. 
  11 

NEW PAGE

The Code of Law Practice 
 
 
 
Article 42 
The Minister of Justice shall issue the implementing regulations for this Code, 
and these regulations shall be published in the Official Gazette. He shall also 
issue any decisions necessary for their implementation. 
Article 43 
This Code shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall enter into force 
90 days thereafter. It shall supersede any rules that are inconsistent therewith. 
  12 

NEW PAGE
Traffic Law 
 
Royal Decree No. M/85 
November 7, 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Translation of Saudi Laws 

NEW PAGE

Traffic Law 
 
 
 
NOTE: 
The translation of Saudi laws takes the following into consideration: 
•  Words used in the singular form include the plural and vice versa.  
•  Words used in the masculine form include the feminine.  
•  Words used in the present tense include the present as well as the future.  
•  The word “person” or “persons” and their related pronouns (he, his, him, they, 
their, them) refer to a natural and legal person.  
 
   
  2 

NEW PAGE

Traffic Law 
 
 
 
Traffic Law 
Chapter 1: Scope and Definitions 
Article 1  
Provisions of this Law, tables annexed thereto, and regulations thereof shall 
apply to all types of vehicles,  drivers, and passengers, in addition to the 
passage of pedestrians and animals. 
Article 2  
In this Law, the following terms shall have the meanings assigned thereto, 
unless the context requires otherwise: 
1. Road: Any thoroughfare open for traffic. 
2. Roadway: The portion of the road designated for vehicle traffic. 
3. Lane:  A  section  of  the  roadway  wide  enough  to  accommodate  one 
procession of vehicles; whether or not marked by longitudinal lines. 
4. Sidewalk: A portion of the road intended for the use of pedestrians. 
5. Island: The space separating two roadways. 
6. Road Shoulder: A portion of the road alongside and adjacent to one or both 
sides of the roadway intended for emergency stopping of vehicles. 
7. Road Area: The space allocated for the road. 
8. Intersection: A place where roads meet, cross, or branch off on one or more 
levels, including the whole area resulting therefrom. 
9. Freeway: A roadway accessible through designated entry and exit points, 
not serving adjacent properties. 
10. Service  Road:  A  roadway  alongside  the  freeway,  serving  adjacent 
properties. 
11. Stopping: Stopping a vehicle due to traffic, or for a period of time necessary 
for loading or unloading passengers or goods. 
12. Parking or Waiting: Keeping a vehicle stationary for a limited or unlimited 
period of time other than stopping. 
13. Parking: The space designated for parking vehicles. 
14. Road Markings: Lines or marks on the road or its sides to regulate road 
use. 
15. Reflectors: Any reflective material placed on the road as a road marking, 
or on vehicle sides or ends which is visible from an adequate distance. 
16. Turn: Any curve whereby a road changes direction. 
17. Road Signs: Any board, signal, etc. erected on the road. 
  3 

NEW PAGE

Traffic Law 
 
 
 
18. Vehicle: Any land transportation means or equipment, running on wheels 
or  chains,  whether  mechanically  or  physically  propelled  or  pulled,  not 
including means of public transportation using rail tracks. 
19. Automobile: Any motor vehicle used for transporting passengers, things, 
or both; or for towing vehicles designed for transporting passengers, things, 
or both. 
20. Private Automobile: A motor vehicle intended for private use to transport 
passengers and their belongings for no charge. Such automobile may be 
used for transportation for a charge by its driver who is licensed by the Public 
Transportation Authority to engage in such transportation using his private 
driver's license.  
21. Taxicab:  A  motor  vehicle,  seating  no  more  than  eight  passengers, 
designated for transporting passengers and their belongings for a charge. 
22. Bus:  A  motor  vehicle  designated  for  transporting  more  than  eight 
passengers and their belongings. Buses are of two types: 
a) Public buses: for transporting passengers and their belongings for a 
charge. 
b) Private buses: for transporting passengers and their belongings for no 
charge. 
23. Truck: A motor vehicle designated for transporting animals and things. 
Trucks are of two types: 
a) Public trucks: for transporting animals, things, and goods for a charge. 
b) Private trucks: for transporting animals, things, and goods for no charge. 
24. Tractor-trailer: A motor vehicle to which a trailer is attached making one 
unit. 
25. Trailer: A vehicle without an engine towed by another motor vehicle. 
26. Semi-trailer: A trailer having a significant part of its tare resting on a tractor-
trailer.  
27. Emergency  Vehicles:  Public  security  motor  vehicles  and  ambulances 
equipped with special audible and visual warning systems, which may 
exceed set speed limits and not stop at traffic lights, when necessary. 
28. Motorcycle: A vehicle with two or more wheels and an engine, designated 
for  transporting  passengers  and  things,  to  which  a  carriage  may  be 
attached, and which is not designed as a car. 
29. Pedal  Cycle:  Any  un-motorized  means  of  transport  with  two  or  more 
wheels, propelled by its rider. 
30. Construction Vehicles: Self-propelled equipment and machines including 
agricultural equipment. 
31. High beam light: the vehicle’s headlights used for illuminating the road a 
long distance ahead when there are no vehicles in the opposite direction. 
a) Low beam light: the vehicle’s headlights used to illuminate the road a short 
  4 

NEW PAGE

Traffic Law 
 
 
 
distance ahead when there are vehicles in the opposite direction. 
b) Position lights: mall head, tail, and side lights used to indicate a vehicle's 
position and dimensions. 
32. Technical  inspection:  Inspecting  a  vehicle  at  an  authorized  periodic 
inspection center. 
33. Driver: Any person who drives a vehicle. 
34. Driving License: An official document issued by the competent authority, 
or  an  accredited  foreign  authority,  certifying  that  the  holder  thereof  is 
qualified to drive one or more types of vehicles. 
35. Vehicle License: An official document issued by the competent authority, 
or an accredited foreign authority, permitting a vehicle to run on roads. 
36. Competent Authority: The authority in charge of the implementation of the 
provisions of the Law and its Regulations. 
37. Passenger: Any person, other than the driver, who is in, or getting in or out 
of, a vehicle. 
38. Pedestrians:  Persons  travelling  on  foot  and  the  like;  including  those 
pushing or pulling baby carriages, wheelchairs, or disabled persons. 
39. Competent Court: A court authorized to consider and determine traffic 
cases and accidents. 
40. Traffic Accident: Any accident involving at least one moving vehicle or its 
load, resulting in unintentional bodily harm, material damage, or both. Traffic 
accidents are of two types: 
a) Minor traffic accidents: any accident resulting in damages to private or 
public property, without any injury requiring medical treatment. 
b) Severe  traffic  accidents:  any  accident  resulting  in  fatalities,  injuries 
requiring medical treatment, or both, or resulting in severe damage. 
41. Drifting: The intentional reckless driving of a vehicle on a road or in a public 
place without justification, causing the tires to produce a screeching sound 
and forcing the vehicle to drift on either sides or rotate around itself while 
moving forward or backward using the power of its engine, its brakes, or 
transmission for the purpose of attracting attention. This includes forcing the 
vehicle to move on either side using only two tires, forcing a two-wheel 
motorcycle to move on a single wheel, the exiting of the driver or passenger 
while the vehicle is in motion, or the dismantling of some parts of the vehicle 
during movement for the purpose of attracting attention.    
42. Weights: 
a) Empty Vehicle Weight: Weight of the vehicle plus fuel and maintenance, 
repair, and spare tools. 
b) Gross Vehicle Weight: Empty vehicle weight plus the cargo, driver, and 
passengers. 
c) Net  Weight  (load):  The  difference  between  gross  and  empty  vehicle 
  5 

NEW PAGE

Traffic Law 
 
 
 
weights. 
d) Axle Weight: The portion of the load supported by one of the vehicle's 
axles. 
43. Regulations: The Implementing Regulations for this Law. 
44. Vehicle  Frame:  The  vehicle's  body  excluding  the  engine,  axles,  and 
chassis.  
Chapter 2: Vehicle Registration and Licensing 
Article 3 
A. Each vehicle shall carry a special number  registered at the competent 
authority in accordance with the Regulations. 
B. The number of a vehicle’s license shall be the same as the number on the 
vehicle's license plate. If the number on the plate is changed, the number on 
the vehicle's license must be changed accordingly. 
Article 4 
Each vehicle – excluding motorcycles, trailers, and semi-trailers – must carry 
two clearly visible license plates displaying the registration number thereof: one 
on the front and the other on the rear end. A vehicle may not be operated 
without such license plates. 
Article 5 
A. Each  motorcycle,  trailer,  and  semi-trailer  must  carry  one  clearly  visible 
license plate fitted on the rear end, and may not be operated without said 
plate. A trailer or semi-trailer must carry the same registration number as the 
tractor-trailers thereof. 
B. If a trailer's size does not obstruct the view of the tractor-trailer's license 
plate, the trailer shall be exempted from carrying a license plate. 
Article 6 
No  vehicle  may  carry  any  license  plates  other  than  those  issued  by  the 
competent authority. 
Article 7  
License plates are categorized as follows 
1. Private license plates which include the following: 
a) Private vehicle license plates 
b) Private truck license plates 
  6 

NEW PAGE

Traffic Law 
 
 
 
c) Private bus license plates 
2. Public license plates which include the following: 
a) Public truck license plates 
b) Public bus license plates 
c) Taxicab license plates 
3. Diplomatic and consular license plates 
4. Temporary license plates 
5. Construction vehicle license plates 
6. Export license plates 
7. Motorcycle license plates 
8. Vintage car license plates  
The Regulations shall determine the categories, specifications, conditions of 
issuance, and manner of preserving such license plates. 
Article 8  
A. No vehicle may be operated before registering said vehicle, paying the 
prescribed fees in accordance with the Fee Schedule annexed to this Law, 
issuing the vehicle license, and fitting the license plates in accordance with 
this Law and its Regulations, excluding military vehicles used for military 
purposes which do not normally use public roads. 
B. All due traffic fines must be paid prior to starting the process of issuing 
vehicle licenses. 
C. Any  vehicle  owner  must  insure  his  vehicle,  in  accordance  with  the 
Regulations. 
Article 9 
Ownership of vehicles may be transferred upon payment of prescribed fees. 
The registered owner of a vehicle shall remain responsible for all fees and 
liabilities regarding said vehicle, and he may recourse to the new owner for paid 
amounts. The Regulations shall set relevant procedures and conditions. 
Article 10 
The use of a vehicle may be changed upon application by the owner or a 
representative thereof, after changing the registration of said vehicle; subject to 
procedures and conditions set in the Regulations. 
Article 11 
A vehicle’s license must be kept therein while in operation, and law enforcement 
officers shall have the right to examine, but not seize, said license. 
  7 

NEW PAGE

Traffic Law 
 
 
 
Article 12 
Vehicle licenses may not be seized, pledged, or held in pledge by others. 
Article 13 
A. Vehicle  licenses  and  license  plates  shall  be  issued  upon  payment  of 
prescribed fees, subject to the conditions set in the Regulations. 
B. If vehicles owned by diplomatic missions are sold, the prescribed fees shall 
be collected, subject to the conditions set in the Regulations. 
Article 14  
A. The validity of all types of vehicle licenses shall be determined by the 
Regulations. 
B. Vehicle licenses shall be renewed upon payment of prescribed fees. 
Article 15 
A replacement of any lost or destroyed vehicle license or license plate shall be 
issued upon payment of prescribed fees, subject to the conditions set in the 
Regulations. 
Article 16  
No title transfer fees shall be collected for vehicles sold for the purpose of 
disassembling them and making use of their parts, in accordance with the 
Regulations. 
Article 17  
The owner of a vehicle may not allow others to drive said vehicle, except with 
authorization in accordance with the Regulations. 
Article 18 
Government agencies may not sell their vehicles without coordination with the 
competent authority. 
Article 19 
Construction vehicles shall be registered with the competent authority such that 
the owner thereof is known, license plates are fitted thereon, and ownership 
transfer procedures and conditions for use and driving thereof are determined 
in accordance with the Regulations. 
Article 20  
The Minister of Interior may assign inspection and evidence collection in traffic 
accidents as well as towing and impounding vehicles and some other traffic 
  8 

NEW PAGE

Traffic Law 
 
 
 
services  to  the  private  sector  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the 
Regulations. 
Article 21  
A. No vehicle showroom may be established without obtaining a license from 
the competent authority and a commercial register. 
B. Vehicle showrooms are prohibited from the following: 
1. Allowing  sold  vehicles  to  leave  showrooms  prior  to  completion  of 
ownership transfer procedures. 
2. Giving  showroom  sale  contract  forms  or  seals  to  a  third  party,  or 
concluding sale contracts outside the premises of the showroom.  
3. Concluding a sale contract for a vehicle sustaining damage to its external 
body prior to its repair without authorization from the competent authority 
in accordance with the Regulations.  
4. Violating any of the requirements or rules set by the Regulations.  
5. Altering, changing, or scratching out data in sale records. Any necessary 
corrections shall be endorsed by affixing a seal thereon. 
6. Selling or leasing the showroom without the approval of the competent 
authority. 
7. Displaying a vehicle in the showroom that cannot be sold for security 
reasons.  
Chapter 3: Weights, Dimensions, and Inspection of Vehicles 
Article 22 
Legal weights and dimensions set for vehicles must be complied with. 
Article 23 
Drafting  and  amending  rules  and  procedures  for  detecting  violations  of 
prescribed weights and dimensions as well as determining the categories of 
such violations and the fines collected for each violation according to its gravity 
to a maximum of 100,000 riyals regardless of the number of violations shall be 
made  by  agreement  between  the  Minister  of  Interior  and  the  Minister  of 
Transport. 
Article 24 
All vehicles shall conform to the specifications and standards approved by the 
Saudi Arabian Standards Organization. 
  9 

NEW PAGE

Traffic Law 
 
 
 
Article 25 
No vehicle may be altered by changing its color, features, standard equipment, 
capacity, or dimensions without obtaining prior permission from the competent 
authority. 
Article 26 
Vehicles of all types shall undergo a periodic technical inspection to ensure they 
are fit for use, subject to the conditions set by the Regulations. 
Article 27 
Transporting non-divisible loads with weights and dimensions exceeding legal 
limits may be permitted subject to conditions and procedures set by the Minister 
of Interior and the Minister of Transport. 
Article 28 
A driver shall be liable for any injury to persons or property, private or public, 
due to transporting loads in violation of legal weights and dimensions, or not 
observing  rules  of  safe  loading,  unless  the  liability  of  another  person  is 
established. 
Article 29 
It shall be prohibited to install or use unauthorized audible or visual warning 
systems in vehicles. 
Article 30 
Trailers and disabled vehicles must, when towed, be fitted with rear and side 
lights or reflectors to make them visible. 
Article 31 
Large vehicles such as trucks, buses, and construction vehicles as well as 
vehicles pulled by animals must be fitted with rear and side lights or reflectors. 
Chapter 4: Driving Licenses 
Article 32 
It shall be prohibited for any person to drive a vehicle prior to obtaining a driving 
license in accordance with the provisions of this Law and its Regulations. 
Article 33 
A  driver  must  carry  a  valid  driving  license  when  driving  a  vehicle.  Law 
  10 

NEW PAGE

Traffic Law 
 
 
 
enforcement officers shall have the right to  examine, but not seize, such 
license. 
Article 34 
Holders of military driving licenses may not  drive civilian vehicles without 
obtaining a driving license from the competent authority. 
Article 35 
Driving licenses shall be classified as follows: 
1. Private driving license. 
2. Public driving license. 
3. Construction vehicle driving license. 
4. Motorcycle driving license. 
Categories  and  specifications  of  such  licenses  shall  be  specified  by  the 
Regulations. 
Article 36  
Obtaining a driving license shall be subject to the following conditions: 
1. Reaching the age of eighteen years, for private and motorcycle driving 
licenses. 
2. Reaching the age of twenty years, for public and construction vehicle driving 
licenses. 
3. Applicants for public or construction vehicle driving licenses may not have 
been previously convicted of a crime of assault on person, honor, or property, 
unless rehabilitated. 
4. Applicants for licenses – regardless of type – may not have been convicted 
of  using,  manufacturing,  trafficking,  distributing,  or  possessing  narcotic 
drugs, unless rehabilitated. 
5. Legal residency status, for non-Saudis.  
6. Being free of any disease or physical disability that inhibits driving the vehicle 
in question. 
7. Completing training hours at a driving school and passing the driving test. 
The Regulations shall specify the required number of training hours and the 
test relating to each license and conditions thereof. 
8. Payment of prescribed fees. 
9. Payment of outstanding traffic fines, if any. 
Article 37 
Any person holding a valid foreign or international driving license recognized by 
the competent authority in the Kingdom shall be exempted from the required 
  11 

NEW PAGE

Traffic Law 
 
 
 
test set forth in paragraph (7) of Article 36 of this Law. 
Article 38  
The competent authority shall regulate the issuance of international driving 
licenses  and  customs  transit  books  (Triptik),  in  accordance  with  the 
Regulations. 
1. Any person violating the rules set by the competent authority, in accordance 
with paragraph (1) of this Article, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding 
100,000 riyals. The Regulations shall classify such violations and determine 
corresponding penalties, taking into consideration proportionality between 
the violation and the penalty.  
2. If the violation is repeated within a year from the date of commission of the 
first violation, the violator shall be punished by a fine not less than half the 
fine stipulated in paragraph (2) of this Article. If the violation is repeated for 
the second time within a year from the date of commission of the previous 
violation, the violator shall be punished by double the fine imposed for the 
second violation or revocation of the license, or both penalties.  
Article 39 
Notwithstanding paragraph (1) of Article 36 of this Law, temporary driving 
licenses, valid for a period not exceeding one year, may be issued for persons 
of not less than 17 years of age, in accordance with controls specified by the 
Regulations. 
Article 40 
Requirements  for  issuing  driving  licenses  to  members  of  diplomatic  and 
consular  missions  as  well  as  regional  and  international  organizations 
accredited in the Kingdom shall be set upon agreement between the Minister 
of Interior and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. 
Article 41  
The validity of driving licenses of all types shall be set by the Regulations. 
Article 42 
An international and foreign driving license shall be valid for one year as of the 
date the holder of the license enters the Kingdom, or until said license expires, 
whichever is earlier. 
Article 43 
A disabled person may obtain a driving license upon presenting an official 
medical report certifying that he is fit to drive, subject to controls set by the 
Regulations. 
  12 

NEW PAGE

Traffic Law 
 
 
 
Article 44 
A driving license shall be renewed upon payment of prescribed t fees and 
relevant fines, if any; subject to conditions set by the Regulations. 
Article 45 
Lost or damaged driving licenses shall be replaced upon payment of prescribed 
fees and relevant fines, if any; subject to procedures set by the Regulations. 
Article 46 
Driving licenses may not be seized, pledged, or held in pledge by others. 
Article 47 
1. Driving schools may not be established or operated without obtaining a 
license from the competent authority. Driving instructors may not practice the 
profession without a license.   
Special regulations issued by the Minister of Interior shall set the necessary 
provisions.  
2. Any person violating the provisions of paragraph (1) of this Article shall be 
punished by one or more of the following penalties:  
a) A warning. 
b) A fine not exceeding 200,000 riyals. 
c) Suspension of licensing or license for a period not exceeding six months. 
The Regulations shall classify the violations and determine corresponding 
penalties, taking into consideration proportionality between the violation and the 
penalty.  
If the violation is repeated within a year from the date of commission of the first 
violation, the violator shall be punished by double the fine imposed for the first 
violation or by any severer penalty in accordance with paragraph (2) of this 
Article. If the violation is repeated for the second time within a year from the 
date of commission of the previous violation, the violator shall be punished by 
double the fine imposed for the second violation or revocation of the license, or 
both penalties.  
Article 48 
The competent authority may revoke or refuse to renew a driving license if it is 
proven that the holder is incompetent or medically unfit to drive the vehicles 
subject of the license. 
Article 49 
The Minister of Interior may approve the establishment of civil nongovernment 
societies for the purpose of educating citizens so as to minimize road accidents. 
  13 

NEW PAGE

Traffic Law 
 
 
 
The Regulations shall specify the duties and powers of such societies. 
Chapter 5: Rules of the Road 
Article 50  
Establishment of shopping centers and the like requires the approval of the 
competent authority, and the Regulations shall set necessary procedures in 
coordination with relevant agencies.  
Article 51 
Road markings, reflectors, and signs annexed to this Law shall be deemed an 
integral  part  thereof  and  drivers  shall  comply  therewith  as  well  as  with 
instructions  issued  by  the  competent  authorities  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of this Law and its Regulations. 
Article 52 
Road markings, reflectors, and signs may not be destroyed, tampered with, 
moved, or disposed of in a way that would make them less visible or interfere 
with the internationally agreed upon meaning thereof. 
Article 53 
Driving shall be on the right side of the road. 
Article 54 
Priority shall be given to on duty emergency vehicles and official motorcades, 
provided that drivers of said vehicles observe the safety of others. 
Article 55 
Pedestrians may only use designated areas as specified by the Regulations.  
Article 56 
School buses stopping for embarking and disembarking passengers may not 
be overtaken, subject to the conditions set by the Regulations. 
Article 57 
While a vehicle is in motion, drivers and passengers must wear seat belts and 
children must be seated in child seats. 
Article 58 
Any person riding a motorcycle must wear a helmet at all times, subject to the 
  14 

NEW PAGE

Traffic Law 
 
 
 
conditions set by the Regulations. 
Chapter 6: Accidents 
Article 59 
Traffic accidents are of two types: 
A. Minor traffic accidents. 
B. Severe traffic accidents. 
The Regulations shall specify the details thereof. 
Article 60 
Drivers  shall  be  liable  for  traffic  accidents  resulting  from  negligence, 
carelessness, or non- compliance with laws. Details thereof shall be specified 
by the Regulations. 
Article 61  
1. In case of a traffic accident resulting in a public right, the competent authority 
shall immediately initiate evidence collection procedures, notify the Public 
Prosecution, and forward the case file thereto, in accordance with the Law 
of Criminal Procedure.  
2. In case of a traffic accident resulting in only a private right, the competent 
authority  shall  detain  the  perpetrator  of  the  accident  for  a  period  not 
exceeding 24 hours, unless he provides a financial guarantee, surety, or a 
guarantee ensuring satisfaction of the private right. If the perpetrator fails to 
provide any of the aforementioned guarantees, he shall be referred to the 
competent court in accordance with statutory procedures upon the lapse of 
the period stipulated in this paragraph.    
Article 62  
1. Any person intentionally or recklessly involved in a traffic accident resulting 
in death, loss of an organ, or dysfunction of an organ or part thereof, shall be 
punished by imprisonment for a period not exceeding four years and a fine 
not exceeding 200,000 riyals, or either penalty, without prejudice to the 
private right.  
2. Any person committing a traffic accident intentionally or recklessly resulting 
in injury, the recovery from which requires more than 15 days, shall be 
punished by imprisonment for a period not exceeding two years and a fine 
not exceeding 100,000 riyals, or either penalty, without prejudice to the 
private right. 
3. Save for the provisions of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this Article, any person 
committing a traffic accident intentionally or recklessly shall be referred to 
  15 

NEW PAGE

Traffic Law 
 
 
 
the competent court in accordance with statutory procedures to determine 
the proper penalty, without prejudice to the private right. The Regulations 
shall determine cases of intentionality and recklessness covered by this 
paragraph.  
Article 63  
1. Subject to Articles 61 and 62 of this Law, the driver of any vehicle involved 
in a traffic accident shall immediately stop the vehicle at the scene of the 
accident, notify the competent authority, and offer all possible assistance to 
the injured. A driver who fails to do so shall be punished by a fine not 
exceeding 10,000 riyals or imprisonment for a period not exceeding three 
months, or both penalties. 
The vehicle may be moved from the scene of the accident in cases specified in 
the Regulations.  
2. The penalty stipulated in paragraph (1) of this Article shall be imposed on 
any person committing any of the following acts:  
a) Substituting the driver of the vehicle causing the accident, or participating 
therein. 
b) Faking a traffic accident.  
Article 64  
Repair shop owners and workers, or others, may not undertake any of the 
following  without  obtaining  a  prior  valid  permission  from  the  competent 
authority: 
1. Repairing the external body of a vehicle. 
2. Making adjustments to a vehicle which involves altering its dimensions, 
weight, or engine power. 
3. Changing the shape or color of a vehicle. 
4. Removing a vehicle's chassis number. 
Any person in violation of the above shall be punished by a fine not less than 
10,000 riyals and not exceeding 50,000 riyals, as well as closure of the repair 
shop for a period not exceeding three months. In case of repetition, the fine 
imposed for the first violation shall be doubled, as well as closure of the repair 
shop for a period not exceeding six months. If the same violation is committed 
for the third time, the fine imposed for the second violation shall be doubled, in 
addition to permanent closure of the repair shop.  
Article 65 
Vehicles damaged beyond repair - or parts thereof - may not be sold or bought 
except in accordance with rules set by the competent authority. Violators shall 
be punished by a fine of 2,000 riyals for the first violation. If the violation is 
repeated, the fine imposed for the first violation shall be doubled. If the violation 
is repeated for the second time, a fine of 5,000 riyals shall be imposed. In case 
  16 

NEW PAGE

Traffic Law 
 
 
 
of further repetition, the violator shall be referred to the competent court, in 
accordance with statutory procedures, to take necessary action.  
Chapter 7: Detecting and Recording Violations and Determining 
Penalties 
Article 66 
The Minister of Interior – or his designee – shall determine the authorities in 
charge of detecting and recording violations of the provisions of this Law. 
Article 67 
Competent courts shall decide cases of traffic accidents and disputes. 
Article 68  
Without prejudice to any harsher penalty provided for in any other law, any 
person committing any of the violations stated in the annexed List of Violations 
shall be punished as follows: 
1. A fine not less than 100 riyals and not exceeding 150 riyals for violations 
listed in the annexed List of Violations (No. 1). For violation (No. 6) of the 
same List, in addition to the fine, the vehicle shall be impounded if the driver 
cannot be reached or fails to respond.  
2. A fine not less than 150 riyals and not exceeding 300 riyals for violations 
listed in the annexed List of Violations (No. 2). For violation (No. 15) of the 
same List, in addition to the fine, the vehicle shall be impounded until the 
violation is rectified. 
3. A fine not less than 300 riyals and not exceeding 500 riyals for violations 
listed in the annexed List of Violations (No. 3).  
4. A fine not less than 500 riyals and not exceeding 900 riyals for violations 
listed in the annexed List of Violations (No. 4). For violation (No. 20) of the 
same List, in addition to the fine, the vehicle shall be impounded if the driver 
cannot be reached or fails to respond. For violations (Nos. 21-25) of the 
same List, in addition to the fine, the vehicle shall be impounded until the 
violation is rectified. 
5. A fine not less than 1,000 riyals and not exceeding 2,000 riyals for violations 
listed in the annexed List of Violations (No. 5). For violations (Nos. 23-25) of 
the same List, in addition to the fine, the vehicle shall be impounded until the 
violation is rectified. 
6. A fine not less than 3,000 riyals and not exceeding 6,000 riyals for violations 
listed in the annexed List of Violations (No. 6). For violations (Nos. 11-14) of 
the same List, in addition to the fine, the vehicle shall be impounded until the 
violation is rectified. 
  17 

NEW PAGE

Traffic Law 
 
 
 
7. A fine not less than 5,000 riyals and not exceeding 10,000 riyals for violations 
listed in the annexed List of Violations (No. 7). For violations (Nos. 4-5) of 
the same List, in addition to the fine, the vehicle shall be impounded until the 
violation is rectified. 
8. A fine shall be imposed for exceeding the speed limit in accordance with 
Annex (No. 8). 
Article 69 
Drifting is a traffic violation. Any person committing such violation shall be 
punished as follows: 
a) First offense: Impounding the vehicle for 15 days, a fine of 20,000 riyals, and 
referring  the  violator  to  the  competent  court  for  consideration  of 
imprisonment. 
b) Second offense: Impounding the vehicle for one month, a fine of 40,000 
riyals, and referring the violator to the competent court for consideration of 
imprisonment. 
c) Third offense: Impounding the vehicle, a fine of 60,000 riyals, and referring 
the violator to the competent court for consideration of either confiscating the 
vehicle or imposing a fine equal to the value of the rented or stolen vehicle, 
in addition to imprisonment. 
Rented or stolen vehicles shall not be impounded or confiscated. 
Article 70  
Subject to Articles 12 and 46 of this Law, any person permitting seizure of a 
vehicle license or driving license, or holding or offering either of them in pledge 
shall be punished by a fine not less than 1,000 riyals and not exceeding 2,000 
riyals. 
Article 71 
Failure to renew a driving or vehicle license shall be subject to a default fine of 
100 riyals for each year or part thereof with a maximum of 300 riyals. The fine 
shall be imposed 60 days following the expiry date of the license. 
Article 72  
A. Any person found in violation of the provisions of paragraph (a) of Article 21 
of this Law shall be punished by a fine of 100,000 riyals, in addition to the 
closure of the showroom subject of the violation until a license is obtained. 
B. Any person found in violation of the provisions of sub-paragraphs (1), (2), 
(3), and (4) of paragraph (b) of Article 21 of this Law shall be punished by a 
fine of 1,500 riyals for the first violation. Such fine shall be doubled if the 
violation is committed for the second time. If the violation is committed for 
the third time, a fine of 8,000 riyals shall be imposed, in addition to the closure 
of the vehicle showroom for one month. If the violation is committed for the 
  18 

NEW PAGE

Traffic Law 
 
 
 
fourth time, the license of the vehicle showroom shall be revoked. 
C. Any person found in violation of any of the provisions of sub-paragraphs (5), 
(6), and (7) of paragraph (b) of Article 21 of this Law shall be punished by a 
fine not less than 10,000 riyals and not exceeding 50,000 riyals for the first 
violation. If the violation is committed for the second time, the fine imposed 
for the first violation shall be doubled. If the violation is committed for the third 
time, the fine imposed for the second violation shall be doubled, in addition 
to the closure of the vehicle showroom for one month. If the violation is 
committed for the fourth time, the license of the vehicle showroom shall be 
revoked. 
Article 73  
1. Detection and  recording  of  traffic  violations  shall be  entrusted  with  the 
agencies designated by the Minister of Interior in accordance with Article 66 
of this Law. The Regulations shall determine the manner of detection and 
recording of violations, including the basic information of the violation, as well 
as the maximum and minimum limits of the fine.  
2. Subject to Articles 74, 75, and 77 of this Law, fines shall be issued in their 
minimum limit, and they may be issued in their maximum limit in cases of 
aggravating circumstances pursuant to a decision by a committee(s) formed 
by  the  Minister.  The  Regulations  shall  determine  such  aggravating 
circumstances and the committee's work procedures.  
Article 74  
In case of repetition of violations jeopardizing public safety within a year from 
the date of commission of the first violation, the competent authority shall 
impose the maximum fine on the violator. If the violation is committed for the 
third time within the same year, the violator shall be referred to the competent 
court - in accordance with statutory procedures - to consider imposing the 
punishment of imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year, unless the court 
decides to double the fine imposed for the second violation. The Regulations 
shall specify violations that jeopardize public safety and procedures for referring 
violators to court. 
Article 75  
1. A violator may appeal the violation before the competent court within 30 days 
from the date of notification thereof. The Regulations shall determine the 
manner of such notification. The court may consider the appeal after the 
lapse of such period if the appellant provides an acceptable justification.  
2. Subject to paragraph (2) of Article 73 of this Law, the violator must pay the 
fine if the period set for appeal, as stipulated in paragraph (1) of this Article, 
expires without filing an appeal, if the competent court rejects such appeal, 
or if a judgment amending the fine imposed for the violation is issued.   
3. If the fine of the violation, along with late payment fees, remain unpaid, the 
competent authority shall notify the violator using appropriate means. If the 
  19 

NEW PAGE

Traffic Law 
 
 
 
amount of such fines reaches 20,000 riyals or more, or if a period of six 
months lapses from the date of notification without payment, the violator shall 
be notified that he must pay such fines within 30 days. If he fails to pay after 
the lapse of said period, he shall be referred to the competent court, in 
accordance with statutory procedures, to consider suspension of all or some 
of the government services provided to him, pending payment of due fines.  
Article 76 
For every violation provided for in this Law, there shall be a number of points- 
corresponding to the gravity of the violation to public safety - to be recorded in 
the violator's record. If the number of violation points exceeds the maximum 
permitted limit, the driving license shall be suspended. The Regulations shall 
specify the relevant rules and procedures as well as suspension periods. 
Article 77  
Without prejudice to the penalties imposed against the driver, if the vehicle's 
owner, designated driver, or possessor allows any person not holding a driving 
license to drive the vehicle, he shall be subject to a fine not less than 1,000 
riyals and not more than 2,000 riyals. In case this results in a traffic accident, 
both persons shall be jointly liable subject to the discretion of the competent 
court. 
Article 78  
If  a  vehicle  is  sold  or  damaged  beyond  repair  outside  the  Kingdom,  the 
competent authority shall be notified thereof in order to revoke its registration; 
the vehicle license and registration number plate shall be surrendered to said 
authority. Any person found in violation of the above shall be subject to a fine 
not exceeding 10,000 riyals. 
Article 79 
1. Vehicles  impounded  by  the  competent  authority,  due  to  their  owners’ 
commission of traffic violations requiring impoundment in accordance with 
the provisions of this Law, or impounded due to traffic accidents shall be sold 
by public auction unless claimed by the owners, their designees, or heirs 
within a period of 90 days from the date of impoundment. The vehicle's sale 
proceeds shall be used to pay any fines as well as towing and impoundment 
fees pending on the vehicle, and the remaining amount shall be deposited 
with the General Commission for Guardianship over Property of Minors and 
Those of Similar Status, until claimed by the owner or heirs. Procedures for 
sale of such vehicles shall be specified by the Regulations. 
2. Unpaid traffic violation fines pending on deceased persons shall be waived.  
  20 

NEW PAGE

Traffic Law 
 
 
 
Chapter 8: General Provisions 
Article 80 
A Supreme Traffic Council shall be established at the Ministry of Interior. A royal 
order  shall  specify  composition,  duties,  and  powers  thereof,  upon  a 
recommendation by the Minister of Interior. Said Council shall be the supreme 
authority overseeing traffic affairs by setting the general traffic policy. 
Article 81 
The competent court shall consider the following: 
1. Legal actions against violators of this Law or Regulations thereof. 
2. Appeals filed against the decisions of the competent authority or any other 
authority concerned with the implementation of this Law or Regulations 
thereof. 
Article 82 
The competent court may – at its own discretion – stay execution of sentences. 
Article 83 
This Law shall supersede the Traffic Law issued by Royal Decree No. (M/49) 
on 6/11/1391H and amendments thereto, and repeal any provisions conflicting 
therewith. 
Article 84 
The Minister of Interior shall issue the Implementing Regulations of this Law 
within 180 days from the date of publication. 
Article 85 
This Law shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall come into force 
180 days from the date of publication. 
  21 

NEW PAGE
Travel Document Law
1421 H
Travel Document Law
Article 2
A passport shall be granted to any applicant holding Saudi Arabian citizenship, in accordance with the Implementing Regulations.
The Minister of Interior may, when necessary, issue a temporary passport or laissez-passer to any person not holding Saudi Arabian citizenship for traveling abroad and re-entering the Kingdom. The Implementing Regulations shall specify the cases in which they may be issued or withdrawn.
Article 12
The following fees shall be charged for travel documents issued under this Law:
60 riyals on an annual basis for passport issuance or renewal
50 riyals for laissez-passer issuance
Said fees may be modified pursuant to a resolution by the Council of Ministers.

